xansm u
5 REPORT
Ma rah
by
Willlam J. Drlver
CONGRESSIONAL ACTION. ..
...1nvolv1ng portlons of t orelgn Trade and Investment Act of
V1972 suddenly loomed as a pass 1ty last week when 1: was learned
that the AFL’CID planned to attempt cmng Tltles v1 and VII of
that proposed Act to the Admlnlstratlon's d leglslatlon.
Through agreement mm House Ways and Means Co tee Chalrman
Wllbur u. M1115 (DrArk—M the House Banklng and Cu Cy Commlttee
has been given jurlsdlctlon over Tltles v1 and VII of t *called
The latter commlttee scheduled gold mu hearlngs March 175 a
unmedlately afterward, 1: expected to begln executlve sesslon mar
Rapld enactment 15 antlclpated.
Drganlzed Labor's posltlon, m be presented the last day of heari
lngs, 15 that dollar devaluatlon 1n 1tself does not provlde adequate
remedles and that the stronger measures embodled 1n the Hartke43urke
mm are needed.
Tltle VI of that measure would empower the Presldent m prohlblt:
Any transactlons 1nvolv1ng threat or indirect transfer
of capltal m or Within any forelgn country when, 1n
his judgment, the transfer would result 1n 3 net dE*
crease 1n L7. 5. employment, and
Any holder of a v. s. patent from manufacturlng the
patented product, usmg the patented process, llcen5*
mg others to manufacture the patented product or usmg
the patented process outslde Unlted States terrltory
when, 1n the Presldent's judgment, such prohibition
Hill contrlbute to 1ncreased employment 1n the Unlted
States .
Tltle v11 would requlre onerous reportlng provlslons 1nclud1ng
complete statlstlcs on worklng condltlons 1n multlnatlonal com?
panles outslde the Unlted States as well as or) products and thelr
dlstrlbutlon.
1: also imposes burdensome requlrements for labellng
and advertlslng.
After key House commlttee members were alerted to organlzed Labor's
strategy, assurances were obtalned that the gold leglslatlon would
be kept free of encumberlng amendments and that the Hartke43urke
measures would be ruled nonigemane.
on March 1, the Senate approved the gold leglslatlon requlred by
the Presldent to unplement negotlated 1nternatlonal monetary agree*
ments .
cm 012524A
2
THE SENATE suscommrm on THE ENVIRONMENT...
...has begun executlve sesslon conslderatlon of pendlng toxlc
substances leglslatlon.
on February 11, the Subcommlttee staff
made publlc Worklng Draft No. 1.
We were 1nv1ted to submlt for con*
slderatlon a memorandum deallng mm Sectlon 24 of that document.
1: was prepared by our General Counsel and submltted on February 15.
Addltlonal changes and luvprovements were recommended 1n more com?
prehenslve comments on February 25 1n 3 letter to the Actlng Subcomi
mlttee Chalman, Senator Willlam B. Spong m.wa.y.
We emphaslzed
our concern over certaln provlslons relatlve m premarket testlng of
chemlcal substances and polnted out other needed 1mprovements.
THE HOUSE PUBLIC wows COMMITTEE STAFF...
...has 1n515ted for some time that the language of the pendlng
Federal Water Pollutlon Control Act Amendments, 3. R.l 1396, would
would be made publlc on March 1. However, present indications are
1: Will not be released untll mm or late March. The Commlttee's
formal report 1: expected about the same tune.
Conslderatlon by the House Rules Commlttee Will take place
prior to House floor actlon. The measure could reach Senate*ﬂouse
conference before Easter.
A HDUSE’SENATE CONFERENCE. ..
...has approved leglslatlon that would requlre the Equal Employ?
men: Opportunlty Commlsslon 13mm to seek court enforcement of 1:5
findings of job discrimination.
Prompt approval by both houses and
Presldent leon 1: expected.
The Senate Verslon of the measure generally prevalled, broaden?
mg EEDC‘S purvlew to government and educatlonal employees as well
as reduclng from 25 m 15 the number of workers 1n 3 company or
unlon comlng under 1:: jurlsdlctlon.
A CoNsUMER PROTECTION AGENCY BILL...
...wh1ch passed the House last October, 15 currently under coni
slderatlon 1n the Senate Government Operatlons Subcommlttee on Exes?
utlve Reorganlzatlon.
Th1: b111, s. 1177, would establlsh an 1ndependent Consumer Prof
tectlon Agency authorlzed m 1ntervene on behalf of consumers 1n
any Federal agency where busmess regulatlon generally 15 at issue.
In addltlon. the new agency could seek judlclal revlew of any dE*
clslon by a Federal agency that 15 consldered to be contrary to the
1nterests of consumers.
cm 035191
T
3
We have
burdensome
make known
Government
alerted MCA leglslatlve contacts to the disruptive and
effects of thls measure. suggestlng that affected companles
thelr opposumnﬂparmcularly to members of the Senate
Dperatlons Commlttee.
The Executlve Dperatlons Subcommlttee 1: expected to begln marklng
up thls mu Within the next three or four weeks.
ownsmm HEARINGS . . .
...on luvplementatlon of the Clean Alr Act Amendments of 1970 were
held recently 77 on January 25729 by Representatlve Paul G. Rogers
m.fFlaJ, of the House Commlttee on Interstate and Forelgn Commerce
and on February 1519, 23725 by Senator Thomas F. Eagleton (D.*MD.7,
of the Senate Commlttee on Publlc Works.
Partlcular concern was expressed by Democratlc members of the
Congress that the Offlce of Management and Budget (mm was 1nteri
cedlng 1n Envlronmental Protectlon Agency 13pm affalrs, contrary
to the 1ntent of the Congress.
Perslstently attacked was EPA'S
delay 1n 155mm; state "Requlrements for Preparatlon, Adoptlon,
and Submlttal of Implementatlon Plans."
EPA'S Admlnlstrator.
Mr. Ruckelshaus. had delayed thelr publlcatlon 1n order to revlse
them.
He deleted 1mpllcatlons that approval of state plans would
depend on 1ncluslon of speclfled regulatory provlslons and clearly
identified them as posslble state optlons, thus allowlng for alter?
natlve control strategles.
Democrats and envlronmentallsts alleged thls change was the
result of polltlcal pressures applled through ms.
However. Mr.
Ruckelshaus defended the legal and technologlcal soundness of ms
actlons.
AS INDICATED IN THE FEBRUARY REPORT...
...wr1tten testlmony developed by our Internatlonal Trade
Commlttee has been presented to the Senate Subcommlttee on Forelgn
Commerce and Tourlsm 1n connectlon Hlth thelr hearlngs on s. 2754,
the Export Expanslon Act of 1971.
By letter on February 29 to the Commlttee's Chalrman, Senator
Danlel K. Inouye minim we relterated our posltlon on:
Upgradlng commerclal attaches,
vsmg 1ndustry advlsors durlng trade negotlatlons,
Strengthenlng Exportilmport Bank operatlons.
Easlng restralnts on bank export flnanclng.
Endlng freight rate dlsparltles,
Permlttlng more actlvltles 1n forelgn trade zones.
Easlng access to drawback opportunltles,
Endlng forelgn threat 1nvestment controls, and on
Quallfylng all export earnlngs for ursc operatlons.
CMAD3619
4
Two speclflc recommendatlons were to:
17 RequlrE, by law, government use of busmess
advlsors 1n 1nternatlonal trade negotlatlons.
27 Subsldlze dlrectly, rather than 1nd1rectly, operatlon
of the v. 5. Merchant Marlne as a means of endlng freight
rate disparities.
...were the toplc at a meetlng on February 24 at MCA Headquarters.
Dlscusslon centered on reported findings of medlcal researchers coni
cernlng phthalate extractlon by blood when stored 1n bags made of
phthalatejolastlclzed polyvlnyl chlorlde £11m, and Observances of
blrth defects 1n rats when 1njected mm types of phthalate esters
used as plastlclzers 1n plastlcs, partlcularly polyvlnyl chlorlde.
Fortyiflve representatlves of 31 companles attended.
They wlsh
to conslder the development of a technlcal program, and eight com?
panles volunteered representatlves as an Ad Hoc Plannlng Group on
Phthalate Studles, Hlth the understandlng that any program proposal o;
1nvolv1ng MCA admlnlstratlon would requlre your approval.
THE ASSOCIATION...
...has extended 1:: agreement mm The Unlverslty of Michigan to
malntaln a reglstry of cases of acroosteolysls (flngertlp bone lesmnsy
and to provlde a consultatlon center for 1ndustry.
1
Funded by contrlbutlons from 19 polyvlnyl chlorlde manufacturers,
the extenslon contlnues a program whlch began Hlth an extenslve mi
Vestlgatlon of the cllnlcal, epldemlologlcal, and 1ndustrlal hyglene
aspects of thls syndrome among polyvlnyl chlorlde productlon workers.
...as a pollutlonipreventlon measure, has proposed regulatlons
concernlng the deslgn and constructlon of Vessels and the operatlon
of temlnal facllltles 1n oll transfer operatlons.
In general, member companles have no objectlon m the proposal.
However. Since we belleve some modlflcatlon 15 necessary to provlde
for approprlate revlew, preserve unlfomlty Hlth present regulatlons
and clarlfy 1ntent of some of the proposals, our comments were sub?
mltted m the Coast Guard on February 15.
THE INTERSTATE comma coMMIssIoN...
cm 035193
...scheduled a modlfled procedure 1n response to our complalnt
concernlng deflclencles 1n the tank car mlleage allowance system
adopted by rallroads, requestlng wrltten comment by February 22.
However. that date dld not allow us sufflclent tune and our request
for a Bniday extenslon was granted.
We may ultlmately request
oral argument 15 the modlfled procedure appears 1nadequate m 35*
sure a complete record.
T
5
ChemEcology. ..
”.15 the tltle of the Assoclatlon's newest publlcatlon; flrst
lssue thls month.
1: replaces CURRENTS/PILDT whlch comblned those
publlcatlons last December.
Issued monthly, ChemEcology 15 edlted
by James P. Turner. Manager of Envlronmental Quallty Infomatlon,
and 15 malled ﬁresioficharge to some 9000 1nternal/externa 1 readers.
EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES...
...by the Assoclatlon are 1ncreaslng.
1nclude:
Recent and future projects
"An Investment In People" W a 24*page booklet descrlblng MCA
educatlonal projects and materlals.
The initial dlstrlbutlon of
over 20,000 drew excellent educator response.
Two new booklets are upcomlng.
A career guldance booklet, "A
Challenge For Growth," will replace "Careers Ahead In The Chemlcal
Industry." And, "What Is Chemlcal Change" 15 currently bemg d15*
trlbuted 1n experlmental form prior to publlcatlon. Authored by
Elbert c. Weaver. 1: presents lecture demonstratlons for elementary
schools.
The Assoclatlon's comblned Educatloniconsumer Informatlon Exhlblt
ellclted substantlal 1nterest and dlscusslon at the Annual Conveni
tlon of the Amerlcan Assoclatlon of School Admlnlstrators 1n Atlantlc
Clty, February 1215.
The same exhibit will be on dlsplay March 579
1n Phlladelphla at the Annual Conventlon of The Assoclatlon for
Supervlslon and Currlculum Development and at the Annual Conventlon
of the Natlonal Sclence Teachers' Assoclatlon 1n New York Clty, Aprll
Two symposla, 1n recognltlon of the MCA Centennlal, Will be €07
sponsored by the Assoclatlon and the Amerlcan Chemlcal Soclety on
Aprll 10 and 12 durlng the latter's Annual Conventlon 1n Boston.
one, under the Dlvlslon of Chemlcal Educatlan, Inc, will feature a
dlscusslon on contlnulng educatlon.
The other, under the Dlvlslon
of Industrlal and Englneerlng Chemlstry, Will be devoted to "Indus*
trlaliAcademlc Cooperatlon 1n the Seventles."
on Aprll 13, the day before a scheduled Educatlon
Actlvltles
Commlttee 1mm meetlng, EAC members will partlclpate 1n an Interi
face Conference mm the ECIS" group of students at the Massachusetts
Instltute of Technology. “(Efficient Communlcatlon through Interpersonal Semlnars.)
cMADBall
Flnally, the me, through MCA'S Manager of Educatlon, Dr. Robert
E. Varnerln. 15 collaboratlng mm the Natlonal Sclence Foundatlon
(NSF7 1n proposlng an Experlmental Research and Development Inceni
tlves Program for NSF fundlng.
If approved by the Congress, the
program will promote the exchange of personnel between 1ndustry and
schools on a sabbatlcal or 1nternsh1p basls and provlde R 4 u funds
for nonidefense research 1n 1ndustry.
A budget of $22 million has
been proposed.
Proposed
esearch Program
0
Met: nlsms of Phosgene Injury to the Lungs
EXHI T A
Puzpo
The pu ass of thls program, to be collectlvely funded by Voluntary sub?
scrlptl n5 from 1nterested companles, 15 to provlde 1nfomatlon on the baslc
mechanl s Involved 1n phosgene damage to the lungs. Th1: 1nformatlon 15 a
prerequl 1te for the detemlnatlon of a recommended method of medlcal treat?
ment of 1 dustrlal exposures to phosgene.
Inltlal p oject
As recomme dad by the Ad Hoc Task Group on Phosgene Safety composed of
represents was of 1nterested member companles, the lnaedlate project 15 that
deflned 1n he proposal made by Dr. M. F, Frosolono of the.Mt. 5mm Hospltal
of Clevelan 1n 3 letter to MCA dated August 23, 1972. Th1: project Is to be
conducted un er Contracts (37 between MCA and Mt. 5mm Hospltal of Cleveland,
not to excee $30,000 and (by between MCA and Dr. Frosolono for consultlng fees
regardlng the research referred to 1n 157, not to exceed $3,000.
Supervlslon
Th1: research 5 m be supervlsed on MCA'S behalf by a Technlcal Task Group
composed of on technlcal representatlve from each subscrlblng company plus an
MCA staff repr sentatlve to serve as secretary.
Drganlzatlonall Within MCA, the Task Group 15 to functlon under the Jurlsi
diction of the afety and Fire Protectlon Comnlttee.
Fundlng
Consnltments hav been made by thlrteen 1nterested companles 1n support of
thls research, u to $3,500 per company. Funds are to be collected 1n advance
of commltments. d dlsbursements subject to MCA staff clearance and approval.
Stlpulatlons
The sclentlflc 1n omatlon developed from thls program 15 m be fully d15*
closed wlthout re trlctlon. For purposes of conslstency and control, however,
all releases are t be made through MCA only, nomally based on Task Force recomi
mendatlons as m n ture and tlmlng. Th1: requlrement 15 not to preclude pry
vats sclentlflc In erahange of non'competltlve 1nformatlon whlch Will be useful,
nor relevant prlvat cosnunlcatlon among subscrlblng companles and organlzatlons;
the staff represent tlve m be 1nfomed of all such 1nterchanges and communlcatlons.
Operatlon
The Task Group Hill a governed by MCA'S "General Prlnclples Appllcable to
the Structure and op ratlons of Conmlttees" and the Rules of Drganlzatlon and
Procedure of the 556 ty and Fire Protectlon Commlttee.
MCA
CMA 035207
EXHIBIT D
Report of
Educatlon Atlvltles Commlttee
m
Manufacturl g Chemlsts Assoclatlon
November 20, 1972
By Henry w. Rahn, Chalrman
1: 15 three years Since the EAC Commlttee last reported dlrectly m thls Board.
In the 1nte1m, several Significant developments have occurred affectlng the area
whereln the Commlttee functlons 7 namely, the 1ndustrlaliacadem1c 1nterface. These
1nclude: £15: 7 employment opportunltles for new technlcal graduates 1n the chemlcal
1ndustry shank to low levels; seeond 7 a wave of technlcal staff reductlons by job
temlnatlon ran through the 1ndustry 1n 197D and 1971; and thlrd 7 soclety's attltude
toward our ndustry underwent deterloratlon m where we now labor under the burden of
a negatlve ubllc image. 1: 15 most approprlate, therefore, and I welcome thls opi
portunlty tn revlew for you the Commlttee's objectlves, plans and actlvltles, structured
to meet our asslgnment and responslblllty m the MCA under condltlons so changed from
the past.
COMMITTEE EDLUTIDN
The Commltte was flrst establlshed 1n the mm 50': when. as you Will recall, there
was a short.ge of graduate chemlsts. The initial objectlve was to encourage students
1 pursue a areer 1n chemlstry, so as to assure an adequate supply of chemlsts for the
xpandlng had: of our 1ndustry.
Untll the m d 50's, the Commlttee contlnued to follow a program of recrultlng students
1nto charms ry. But then some red flags went up, when careful revlews of technlcal
graduate suplyidemand studles lad several of our members to predlct that the high post
World War I blrth rates would result 1n an oversupply of chemlsts 1n the early 70's. The
rough colnc dance of thls graduate oversupply timing, mm the economlc downturn of the
chemlcal 1nustry beglnnlng 1n 1959, and the layoffs of employed chemlsts and chemlcal
englneers w 1Ch ensued, accelerated the rate at whlch the oversupply of unemployed
ch mlcallyi ralned persons was growlng. As of earller thls year, 25% of all chemlsts 25
years of an; or less were unemployed. Faced mm these unsettllng aspects 1n the job
market. the Commlttee declded to modlfy 1:5 objectlves. Instead of stresslng recrultment,
we began to focus on the quallty and type of training sultable for chemlsts golng 1nto
1ndustry.
CMA 035213
wrung TECH ICAL mmowm SWPLY’DEMAND RELATIONSHIP
In looklng -head, we are confronted mm a mghly confused picture concernlng the
future dema disupply relatlonshlp for new graduate sclentlflc and englneerlng man*
power. Majo longirange studles reachlng 1nto the 1980's by such prestlglous groups
as the Natl-nal Sclence Foundatlbn. Sclentlflc Manpower Commlsslon, Englneerlng
Manpower Co ‘ lsslon of the Joint Englneers Councll and the v. 5. Department of
Labor reach Varylng forecasts, ranglng from predlctlon of years of oversupply m dlre
Harnlngs of impending shortages.
Perhaps mu 1: to be expected as the natlon grapples mm the problem of changlng
priorities -nd shlftlng actlvltles. And 1n Vlew of thls, 1: would appear that the use of
hlstorlcal rend data for predlctlng technlcal manpower supplies ten years from now forces
some degree of uncertalnty 1nto the forecasts. But the welght of the evldence seems to
he on the 1de of an impending shortage. The shortirange forecasts, on the other hand,
as mode by 1mllarly competent groups, are consldered m be much more rellable. We
can dlscus these flgures Hlth more confldence. In general, such studles predlct He
Will exper -nce a sharp downward trend 1n 13.5., 24.5. and 1mm. degrees awarded 1n
chemlstry . d all englneerlng durlng the next four years.
If thls do nward trend contlnueS, there 1: reason to belleve that a shortage of some
proportlon could develop 1n the supply of sclentlflc and englneerlng graduates. A5
responslbl- members of the chemlcal 1ndustry, I belleve there 15 cause for us to be
7 concerns over both the short and long range Situation. I Will not burden you mm a
complete s-atlstlcal analysls that supports thls concluslon, but here are some Significant
detalls.
First, und-rgraduate enrollments for majors 1n chemlstry have hlstorlcally 1ncreased
modestly e.gh year. In 1970, however, the number of ft” 5. degrees awarded 1n
chemlstry ecllned for the flrst time 1n 20 years. We conclude that a hlgh "drop out"
rate betwe-n entry and graduatlon for chemlstry majors has taken place.
Second, th- number of flrst year graduate students 1n 1mm. chemlstry programs has
decllned 2-a Since 1955. Statlstlcs for each year indicate an 1ncreased number of
students w o earn a degree 1n chemlstry only as a "stepplng stone" to careers 1n other
flelds.
Thlrd, undrgraduate enrollments and earned degrees 1n englneerlng are decllnlng
Slgnlflcanly. From the total englneerlng bachelor supply of 43,000 graduatlng 1n
1971, the mutput 1n 1975 1: expected to fall to 31,000.
Agalnst th 5 background of rapldlyidecllnlng 1nterest 1n sclentlflc and englneerlng
degrees. tare are some that clalm that even larger decreases 1n the employed technlcal
worlcforce may be necessary, as an adjustment to changlng R L n prlorltles. If thls ha?
comes nee sary, I susp at w Hill 61nd the students movlng ever farther away from the
chemlcal 1dustry, a developm nt we would all llke to avold 15 posslble.
CMA 035214
The chemlc.l 1ndustry, as you well know, 15 an 1ndustry of great complexlty,
requlrlng any high level 1ntellects to effectlvely develop, manage and operate
the entezp 15a. Our future ability to attract such 1nd1v1duals 1n the numbers requlred
Hill depen largely on the prestlge of the occupatlon, worklng condltlons and personal
opportunlt as for growth.
In attempt mg to assess future requlrements for new graduate chemlsts and chemlcal
englneers, we make the predlctlon thls number will remaln a reasonably stable percentage
5 the tots 1ndustrlal workforce. At the rlsk of overslmpllflcatlon, we have reached thls
concluslon by assumlng two 1mportant opposlng demand trends will tend to balance each
other. The downward trend 1nvolved R/D. Durlng the past 25 years, 1A5: actlvltles
accounted or a large fractlon of total technlcal employment. mm thls fractlon tendlng
to become mailer, as R/D 15 daiemphaslzed, one can loglcally reason future needs for
chemlsts a d chemlcal englneers 1n thls area will dlmlnlsh. on the other hand, an
upward tre d 1nvolv1ng newlyiemerglng problem areas, such as envlronmental control
and the 1mend1ng energy crlsls, whlch heretofore have not been factors of any Slgmsk
canes as uers or chemlcally tralned personnel, could posslbly impose heavy future dE*
mands algal st supply, offsettlng losses 1n the m: sector of the chemlcal 1ndustry. Coni
sequently, we belleve contlnued reductlons 1n chemlstry and englneerlng majors and
earned degees Hill llkely leadto shortages of technlcal graduate manpower resources.
In Vlew of the uncertalnty surroundlng future needs, 1: 15 temptlng to adopt 3 "Walt and
see" attlt de. The Commlttee counsels agalnst thls, because to do so will undemme
the attrac 1Veness of chemlstry and the chemlcal 1ndustry as a career cholce for students.
. Further. 1: Hill llkely 1ntenslfy the negatlve lmage many students and young faculty,
speclally n nonisclence areas, have for the chemlcal and other technlcallyiorlented
1ndustry. n d above all, we must bear 1n mlnd that the manpower problems we antlelpate
1n four 0 elght years are, 1n fact, today's problems because the new chemlsts and englneers
' He Will Ilre then are 1n the educatlonal pipeline now.
RESTORATII 0F coupmmm m muusmy
If you an; as mm me that there has 1ndeed been a loss of confldence by the student body
1n our 1nustry, the questlon then arlses as to what steps we can take to restore 1:. We
of the Co ‘1ttee feel thls 15 a serlous matter that should be promptly dealt Hlth 1n some
posltlve ay. In conjunctlon mm the Publlc Relatlons Commlttee, we are organlzlng an
effort to deflne a program for your conslderatlon. Meanwhlle, I urge you to give, mm
us, serlo s conslderatlon to thls matter so that the MCA and the 1ndustry can have an
1mportant contlnulng 1nfluence on the educatlonal system and on natlonal manpower
plannlng .ommssmns.
OBJECTIVE 7 PLANS 7 ACTIVITIES 7 Accommsamms
Agalnst t e foregolng background, I would now llke to report on our current programs
and actlv tles. In 1971, the Board approved a reallgnment of our objectlves and functlon
accordlng t the greatly altered mployment and economlc eondltl n5 confr ntlng member
companles Our objectlve became: "To promote through the educatlonal system
publlc unerstandlng of the chemlcal 1ndustry; to 35515: 1n career guldance; to enhance
the quall-y of educatlon 1n chemlstry, chemlcal englneerlng and 1nterd15c1pllnary
flelds re ated m chemlstry; to promote the teachlng of chemlstry and related sclences
1n 3 broa- 1ntellectual, cultural and soclal context at all levels of educatlon." We
thus reaflmed our prlmary mlsslon to collaborate Hlth educators and educatlonal
systems. ur actlvltles were then reorganlzed and channeled 1nto three categorles,
all judge to be of unportance 1n attalnlng our objectlves. These are:
0
I
1
career gu dance
chemlcal ducatlon
publlc unerstandlng of the chemlcal 1ndustry
Each area of concern 1: asslgned m a separate mlbcommlttee. Concernlng thelr work,
the 60110 mg 15 of 1nterest.
CAREER cu DANCE sumommrm
Th1: grou 61nd: 1tself 1n the paradoxlcal Situation of motlvatlng students toward chemlstry
at a time when tralned sclentlsts are unemployed. Th1: contrasts mm a past perlod of
more than two decades when expanslon and growth of the 1ndustry assured multlple job
opportunl ms for each new chemlst. Employment prospects prevalllng at the time a
student m.de a career declslon remalned essentlally unchanged 4 or a or 10 years later
when he a tered the job market. Speclallzatlon was the "name of the game"; career
objectlve for speclflc posltlons could be descrlbed succlnctly 1n terms of course requlre*
ments and skllls. Career guldance was then a Very legltlmate facet of recrultment 1n
advance, hen there are concrete job openlngs. Only recently have some assoclatlons,
professlo 31 socletles and companles abandoned thls actlvlty 1n Vlew of changed condltlons.
Some few ears ago the Career Guldance Subcommlttee began to redlrect 1:5 efforts to
give grea er emphasls to the Varlety of tasks performed 1n the chemlcal 1ndustry. There
15 a contnulng need for people mm a chemlcal background but, as you know, the ap*
pllcatlon of thelr educatlon and training mlght not confom to the tradltlonal and
academlc mags of the charms: or chemlcal englneer. The subcommlttee encourages
those m: partlcular ability and 1nterest 1n chemlstry to a career 1n R L D. However,
for most n 1ndustry, the translatlon of theoretlcal 1nfomatlon 1nto practlcal realltles
such 35—m1n15tratlon, marketlng, personnel, liaison mm government and publlc re*
latlons -flnes ...where the actlon 15." Consequently, an educatlon should be dlrected
m the b oad spectrum of job opportunltles and develop the 1nd1v1dual 1nterests and
skllls o- the student.
Several xperlmental career booklets were developed to present the new approach to
more tha 4,500 educators. students and admlnlstrators who requested Copies. A new
edition .5 the booklet Will be dlstrlbuted early next year, 1ncorporat1ng many helpful
suggestl n5 recelved from teachers and students.
CMA 0352 a
\t 15 co rageous to phase out old and luccessful programs and 1nnovate when our
career g ldance efforts rode the crest of the wave of acceptance among educators
and studnts. Durlng the 197171972 flscal year, for example, we filled requests
for more than 30,000 career booklets and 10,000 flyers. 1: 15 preferable, as you
Will agre, to be ahead of change rather than unwittlng Victims of 1:.
Th1: subommlttee also 55515:: and encourages the 1ncreased number of those who
elect chmlstry as a cultural background or as a foundatlon for careers 1n flelds
such as edlclne, law and marketlng whlch have competlng clalms on technlcallytralned men and women.
CHEMICAL EDUCATION smacomamm
Th1: gro p spearheads efforts to 1nfluence chemlcal educatlon. As a measure of our
success nd acceptance among academlc chemlsts durlng the past two years, members
5 our co lttee have been partlclpants by 1nv1tatlon at three major chemlcal educatlon
conferen es and at tke Whlte House Conference on Youth. In the past year, we
collabor.ted. by 1nv1tatlon, mm the Natlonal Sclence Foundatlon 1n the prellmlnary
plannlng and 1mplementatlon of a new educatlonal program 1n whlch 1ndustry and the
academe 111 jolntly study the process of 1nnovatlon and of expedltlng the process by
whlch ne 1deas are transferred 1nto currlcula or marketable products.
The work of thls subcommlttee 15 now focused 1n three areas:
College -nd High School Teacher Awards
Influenc- on Currlcula
Interfac- Conferences
' Colleg- Awards; Since 1957, MCA has honored 75 outstandlng professors of chemlstry
and chemcal englneerlng. As one of the foremost natlonal awards on the college level
1n the v.5. and Canada, the program has attalned prestlge and 15 consldered by many
r cent r-clplents as the plnnacle of thelr teachlng careers.
In 1972, the 51x medallsts were featured 1n 3 cover study 1n Chemlcal and Englneerlng
News an a cover headllne 1n the Journal of Chemlcal Educatlon. a flrst for MCA 1n
each of these magazlnes. In 1972, we recelved more than 430 inquiries and processed 192
nomlnat ons; both flgures represent a high for the program. As of thls date, we have pros ssed 294 inquiries and 74 nomlnatlons for the 1973 program.
V'IT
In the as: two years we conferred Elva college awards on the campus of the reclplent.
s Veral of you represented MCA at these ceremonles and contrlbuted m thls new
dlmensl-n of 1ndustryieducatlon contact. A5 a result of these campus ceremonles,
several major 1nst1tutlons raievaluated thelr programs honorlng excellence among thelr
faculty, another plans to 1n1tlate an honors convocatlon and another broke an old
tradltln and gave publlc notlce of the award at commencement.
CMA 03517
a
Our col age awards have been one of our least expenslve but hlghest return
actlvlt as.
ngh SC 001 Awards: Since 1964, MCA has honored more than 199 secondary school
teacher mm local awards of 52m. The program, admlnlstered by Chemlcal Industry
Councllq was restrlcted to teachers Hlthln the locale of the councll. In 1973,
He Will open the program, maklng any teacher 1n the v.5. and Canada ellglble for
a regloal award of 5an or for the new natlonal award of $1,000. The expanded
program has aroused an enthuslastlc response. To date, we have processed 55 requests
for 1nf-Imatlon and nomlnatlon toms.
Influen e on Currlcula; For almost 10 years the Chemlcal Educatlon Subcommlttee
has pro oted the 1ncluslon of practlcal chemlstry from 1ndustry 1nto chemlstry courses
on the 1gh school and lower college levels. When we flrst made the suggestlon, our
message went unneeded among educators who 1ntenslfled the theoretlcal content of
thelr c emlstry courses. Recently, other assoclatlons, professlonal socletles, major
chemlca educatlon conferences and educators concur mm our proposal. We collaborate
mm ed Gators to ensure that the 1ndustrlal world of chemlstry 15 a necessary adjunct to
theory.
In 1957 the flrst tltle 1n 3 10 book. Mczvsponsored "Chemlstry 1n Actlon Serles" was
publlsh-d by Doubleday. The books related practlcal storles and personal accounts of
the Ho Id of 1ndustry. Almost 100,000 Copies, llke the two samples I have here, have
been s-ld m enrlch hlgh school and lower level college chemlstry courses. Elght of
these tles appear 1n forelgn language editions slmllar m thls Japanese Verslon of
Water 5 Everybody's Buslness, and one tltle 1n 3 v.5. Infomatlon Servlce edition 1n
Ind 13. the ftooks beportment of the Amerlcan Chemlcal Soclety now publlshes the
serles. We cooperate 1n enlistlng authors and asslstlng 1n the preparatlon of manuscrlpts .
Slnce 951, Holt. Rlnehard and Wlnston publlshed four MCAisponsored 1nnovat1ve
labora-ory manuals for elementary and secondary schools. More than 155,000 Copies
have ben sold. MCA 1: wldely known and esteemed for thls servlce. We Will request
modest fundlng to update one of these manuals 1n the next flscal year.
We can assed member companles and mode Significant suggestlons for the Dbjectlves
and Gu delmes for Undergraduate Programs 1n Chemlstry for the Commlttee on Prof sslonal Training of ACS. John Howard of Kodak, member of both our and the ACS
commltee, summarlzed and submltted our recommendatlons. In the past 51x months,
the Chln’nan of the ACS commlttee acknowledged our contrlbutlons before more than 300
Chalmn of college chemlstry departments and, on another occaslon, before more than 450
educat-rs.
Interf.ce Conferences; We 1n1tlated experlmental and 1nnovat1ve conferences of
studen s, educators and 1ndustrlal people. We have seen the effectlveness and
predlc an 1ncreaslng need for thls type of dlalog. Members of the subcommlttee share
thelr -xp rlence mm member companles who have organlzed slmllar sesslons.
CMA 03.219
in
7
FUEL]: vmgnsmmms 017 THE CHEMICAL INDUSTRY suscommmrm
The t 1rd and newest subcommlttee of the Educatlon Actlvltles Commlttee promotes
gr at.r publlc understandlng of the chemlcal 1ndustry through the educatlonal system.
Thelr efforts are dlrected primarily to the nonisclence student and faculty who harbor
a neg.t1ve attltude toward :echmcallymnented 1ndustry. Many of these apostles,
m be surE, have the nalvete of youth but share mm us 1n 1ndustry a blgness of concern
5 r sclety. Thelr zeal and energles seek dlrectlon toward constructlve as well as
destr ctlve goals. Though some would "wrlte off" thls group as 1gnorant, our contact
mm hem through 1nterface semlnars 1nd1cates that they have done thelr homework well
but oten lack an overmall and balanced Vlew of a partlcular problem. They are un*
1nfo ed, for the most part, of the accompllshments of 1ndustry for soclety. However,
they .re open and willing to learn and change thelr attltudes.
The sbcommlttee coordlnates 1:5 efforts Hlth Mrs. Walton's Consumer Infomatlon
Subcomlttee. We make sultable educatlon materlals avaliable to Mrs. Walton's
comm tee and dlstrlbute thelr materlals deslgned to educate the general publlc
throuh our educatlon channels. on three occaslons we comblned the Consumer Inf matlon and Educatlon exhlblts to stretch our exmm: dollars and to reach new audlences
c sclnce and nonisclence orlented publlcs. At the suggestlon of the Consumer Infomatlon
group we publlshed a manual of Simple chemlcal demonstratlons sultable for the general
publl and have another manual of slmple food experlments 1n the rough manuscrlpt Stags.
MCA'S educatlon exhlblt provldes us the opportunlty to present all our programs and
t dis uss them mm educators. Th1: past year more than 2,500 educators Vlslted our
boot at one reglonal and three natlonal educatlon conferences. Th1: year we have
scheuled 51x exhlblts 1n all sectlons of the v.5. and seek slmllar contacts Hlth
Canalan educators.
The Ho subcommlttees also coordlnated thelr efforts 1n presentlng the semlnar
"Cat.lyst '72 Is Sclence Necessary...?, whlch I hope many of you were able to
atted thls mornlng.
The mpact of electronlc medla on thls generatlon 1nd1cates that the prlnted word
15 n- longer the only effectlve avenue of communlcatlon. An experlmental tape
for ampus radlo, classroom or prlvate llstenlng was produced. mm Clips, sllde
lest res and audlo courses are some of the means of communlcatlon whlch He Will
pro-se to you for future budget allocatlons.
As 1nd1cated earller. there 15 on the drawlng boards a jolnt task force mm the Publlc
Rel.tlons Commlttee to study the negatlve lmage of 1ndustry among youth and make
rec-mmendatlons on what 1ndustry can do to stem the tlde of unfalr Crltlclsm whlch, as
you know, often creates the unfavorable cllmate for adverse and restrlctlve leglslatlon.
Our work, llke publlc relatlons, 15 never endlng. There 15 no such thlng as a stable or
one tune publlc. Publlcs are llke nvers 7 more water always feedlng 1nto a stream
mun never stands 5:111 and n Ver 1: qulte the same at any one polnt of reference.
CMA 035219
Th1 about brlngs ma :9 the and of my report.
Bef-re closmg, I would llke to thank you, the member companles who are represented
on he Commlttee and the staff of the MCA, for the strong support glven the ma.
Th- Commlttee membershlp 15 llsted 1n the new MCA dlrectory. The 1nd1v1duals named
an the MCA staff form a team of hlghly motlvated, dedlcated, competent professlonals
of Varled dlsclpllnes glvlng great breadth of experlence to our work. From a purely
pe sonal polnt of Vlew, may I say 1: 15 both a pleasure and a prlvllege to work mm
t -m.
I thls brlef report, I have llsted only the hlghllghts of our problems, accompllshments
ad future plans. I am sure that you have many other questlons related to our work. I
w 11 be happy to respond Either before you adjourn thls meetlng or later.
I thank you.
u A 035220
Proposed
Research Program
on
Carclnogenlc Potentlal of mel Chlorlde
EXHIBIT A
purpose
The purpose of thls program 15 to provlde sclentlflc
1nfomatlon to clarlfy the status of Vinyl chlorlde (monomer)
1n reference to carclnogenlclty.
Proj eat
As recommended by an Ad Hoc Plannlng Group for mel
Chlorlde Research. composed of representatlves of eight MCA
member companles, the project 15 to contract for annual testi
mg research under whlch experlmental annuals would 1nhale
Vinyl chlorlde monomer Vapor at selected concentratlon levels
and be examlned 1n accord Hlth an agreediupon testlng and
examlnatlon protocol.
Planned duratlon of the project 15
three years.
Accordlng to quotatlons from Industrlal slowest
Laboratorles, Inc., Hlth whlch the contract 1: 1n prospect,
and an allowance for Vinyl chlorlde supply and contlngencles,
the projected cost 15 $193,000.
Fundlng
Fundlng commltments have been recelved from seventeen
MCA member companles sufflclent 1n the aggregate to cover the
stated cost. Company shares are proirated on the basls of
publlcly announced tonnage productlon capaclty for Vinyl
chlorlde monomer plus polyvlnyl chlorlde.
lsbursements are to be subject to MCA staff clearance
an approval.
Sup Vlslon
The ogram 15 m be supervlsed on MCA'S behalf by a
Techn 51 Task Group on me1 Chlorlde Research composed of
one he hnlcal representatlve from each subscrlblng company,
plus an MCA staff representatlve to serve as secretary.
Admlnlst atlvely, the Task Group 15 m functlon under
the jurl diction of the Dccupatlonal Health Commlttee.
CMA 03522
Stlpulatl s
The sclent 51c 1nfomatlon developed from thls program
15 to be c ly dlsclosed, wlthout restrlctlon.
For purpose
of conslste y and control, however, all releases are to be
made solely hrough MCA, nomany based on Task Group reef
ommendatlons as to nature and timing.
Th1: requlrem nt would
not preclude rlvate sclentlflc 1nterchange of nonicompetltlve
1nfomatlon u ml to advancement of the program, nor relevant
prlvate commun catlon Hlthln and among subscrlblng companles.
1: would be an obllgatlon to 1nform the MCA staff representai
tlve on a curre t basls about all such related 1nterchanges
and communlcatl n5 other than those 1nternal to the company.
Operatlon
The Task Group 1 to be governed by the requlrements of
MCA'S "General p 1nc1ples Appllcable to the Structure and Dpi
eratlons of Comm ttees" and the Rules of Drganlzatlon and Prof
cedure of the Dec patlonal Health Commlttee.
MCA
CMA 035229
exhlblt :1
STAFF REPRT
January 1‘73
by
Wllllam J Drlver
TAX REFORM...hear1ngs before the House Ways and
mlttee ar llkely m begln early 1n the next sesslon
As long so as last June, that Commlttee's Chalman,
M1115 m. Ark.7, 1nd1cated the lssue would be number
orlty.
Means Com
of Congres.
Wllbur
one pry
Less cert.1n 15 the nature and scope of such hearlngs.
Whlle Var on: members of Congress have announced that they H111
sponsor .. oopholejolugglng" bllls. M1115 has avolded advocatlng
sweeplng efoms.
The Admlnstratlon is expected to 1ntroduce 1:: tax reform
proposal arly 1n order to take the initiative.
Comments .y
Varlous Teasury Department offlclals 1nd1cate the Admmsmr
tlon H111 emphaslze tax Simplification rather than substantlve
reform.
Treasury nder Secretary Edwln 5. Cohen stated recently
that he specter! Congress to take under conslderatlon the Asset
Depreclat on Range (AER) system, the 1nvestment taut credlt, and
the mm tax on tax preference 1ncome.
1: 15 als- expected
that capl 51 galns H111 come up for congresslonal revlew.
Some Adml lstratlon offlclals have been advocatlng early
Congresslonal conslderatlon of trade reform leglslatlon ahead of
tax legl latlon, both of whlch are handled by the House Ways
and Mean Commlttee. Mr. M1115 15 reported to have 1nd1cated
that he ould put trade leglslatlon before tax resom ls Presldent
leon sh-uld request 1:. We understand, however, that the
Preslden has not yet made a declslon on elther the nature of
trade lelslatlon m be proposed by the Admlnlstratlon, or on
the tact cal lssue of when to present 1:.
TRADE Po ICY...1n the new leon Admlnlstratlon H111 operate
under ne leadershlp.
The Pres dent has 1nd1cated that. 1n addltlon m hls Cablnet
dutles. reasury Secretary Shultz H111 take charge of overall
economlc pollcy.
The 1mm1 ent departure of Commerce Secretary Peterson should
restore he Department of State to some emlnence 1n trade pollcy
matters.
No Chang: have been 1nd1cated so far 1n the Offlce of the
Speclal rade Representatlve.
However. the Presldent has
accepted r slgnatlons from a number of Internatlonal Economlc
Pollcy C-uncll staff memb rs, presently headed by Peter Flanlgan.
:sz D3626
Staff Reort
January 973
Page 2
9
THE cow DVERSY...oVer tank car mlleage allowances contlnues.
on Nova er 24, the rallroads ﬁlled a reply to statements by
MCA and -ther 1ntervenors wlth the Interstate Commerce Commlsslon
The r511 Dads:
Reslst udatlng of base classlflcatlon Values (BCV'57 ,
attackln the baslc system and clalmlng that a slngle
percentae trendlng factor 15 inapproprlate,
Crltlclz-d our proposal to ralse the Value ceiling to
54n,nnn, contendlng that linings and speclal materlals
relate t- the "package" functlon of a tank car, and
Contlnu- legal objectlons m Icc's power to prescrlbe
speclfl allowances.
The r31 road document was lengthy.
Therefole, m permlt
adequat evaluatlon and response, addltlonal time to comment was
requestd 1n our behalf and that of the Amerlcan Petroleum
Instltu-e, car 11mm; companles and other supporters.
Four
weeks w-re granted; reply statements are now due January 9, 1973.
NIosH.. the Natlonal Instltute for Dccupatlonal Safety
and ﬂea th, 15 conductlng a Natlonal Dccupatlonal Hazard Survey
a statl-tlcal study deslgned to collect pertlnent 1nformatlon
regardl g blologlcal, physlcal and chemlcal exposures to 1ndus*
trlal wmrkers. Accompanled by management representatlves, NIDSH
surveyo s tour 1ndustrlal plants, notlng exposures to dlfferent
occupat onal groups.
Seventy Elva percent of the data collected 15 reported as
exposurs to trade name compounds.
However the Instltute's
ultlmat goal 1: to develop 1nfomatlon on exposures to speclflc
chemlca s, not trade name products.
Therefo e, NIDSH deslres
lngredlnt 1nfomatlon for each trade name ltem reported to
them.
To obtan thls 1nfomatlon they propose to send a letter
and a "equest com" (one for each trade name product) to about
snnn ma ufacturers.
Respons- would be mandatory.
There 1 obvlous concern that trade secret 1nfomatlon
mlght 1-31: from the NIDSH flies.
Theref- e a panel meetlng
under t e Offlce of Management and Budget 15 belng arranged,
and M A companles H111 have an opportunlty to express thelr
Vlews egardlng the need for assurances of confldentlallty
beyond those already expressed 1n the Dccupatlonal Safety and
Health Act.
1
cm n3.24a
Staff 'eport
Januar 1973
Page 3
THE ASDCIATIDN...part1c1pated 1n 3 recent meetlng 1n
Geneva of the Unlted Natlonsl Commlttee of Experts on the Trans
port 0 Dangerous Goods.
Attend mg were: A. c. Clark, Assub
ant Te hnlcal Dlrector. Transportatlon and Dlstrlbutlon and
Dr. c. Boyd Shaffer, Dlrector of Toxlcclogy. Amerlcan Cyanamld
Compan .
The la tar served as an advlsor on deflnltlons and
classl leatlons of toxlc materlals.
Actlon taken at thls meetlng H111 result 1n publlcatlon
of a s pplement m Unlted Natlons recommendatlons 119707 on
the al.55161catlon. packaglng and labellng of hazardous
mater1.ls 1n 1nternatlonal trade.
t
THE ASDCIATIDN...has offered recommendatlons m the
Envlr-nmental Protectlon Agency (mm on the professlonal
quallucatlons deemed necessary to membershlp on us Effluent
Stand.rds and Water Quallty Infomatlon Advlsory Commlttee.
We al-o offered to suggest candldates suiting these qualifier
tlons .
ASSOC ATIDN TASK GROUPS...are contlnulng to work wlth EPA
1n th development of effluent guldellnes for the categorles of
organ (:5. 1norgan1cs, plastlcs and synthetlcs.
EPA n 5 already lssued guldance documents to 1:: tan Reglonal
Offlcs for thelr 1nter1m use 1n draftlng dlscharge permlts for
plast cs and synthetlcs and 15 enterlng 1nto contracts wlth
consutants who H111 recommend a basls for establlshlng Best
Practcable Control Technology Currently Avallable, Best Axial]:
able Iechnology Economlcally Achlevable, and Natlonal Standards
of Pa formance for new dlscharge sources.
1: 15 antlclpated
that 1nd1v1dual plants judged to be "exemplary" H111 provlde the
base for the requlred levels of technologlcal performance.
am 35247
5:36 Report
Janu.ry 1973
Page 4
THE ATER “swans commrmg...nas establlshed eight task
grous to deal wlth partlcular aspects of regulatlons under the
1972 amendments to the Federal Water Pollutlon Control Act.
In t 15 regard, we have already commented to EPA regardlng:
117 roposed regulatlons relatlng to State dlscharge permit
pro am: and forms for dlscharge permlt appllcatlons and 127 a
dra- document relatlng m pretreatment standards for dlscharges
1nt-mun1c1pal systems.
A SILID WASTES MANAGEMENT CDMMITTEE...task group and other
1ntrested company representatlves are revlewlng an EPA draft
doc an: on ocean dlsposal guldellnes and H111 malntaln dlalogue
m: that agency 1n the development of ensulng Federal regulai
:10 s .
ma. HERMAN s. BLDCH...Assoclate
Unl ersal 011 Products and a lDiyear
Ac lvltles Commlttee 1mm, has been
Amrlcan Chemlcal Soclety's Board of
m actor of Research for
we Eran of my: Educatlon
na ed Chalrman of the
u rectors.
u. Bloch has been one of the prune catalysts for MCA/ACS
cullaboratlon 1n such EAC projects as the "Chemlstry In Actlon"
-r1e5, OpeniEnded Experlments, Awards and Interface Conferences.
-e served as EAC Chalman from 19591971.
A 03624:!
423
(a dltlonal Capltal Assets.
The Va 5 furnlture and
equlpment Ha ot reflected 1n the audltors' Statement of Assets, Liabilities,
and Fund Balances cause acqulsltlons of these ltems are charged to ex*
pense when purchased. audltors, however, have detemlned that the
depreclated value of these at: on hand as of May* 31, 1973, was $51, 759. 94.
An 1nventory by the staff of m bllcatlons held for sale as of
May 31, 1973, was $1 1 1, 997. As 1n case of furnlture and equlpment, the
value of publlcatlons was not shown 1n th dltors' Statement of Assets,
Liabilities, and Fund Balances Since the cost ubllcatlons 15 charged to
expense when prlnted.
III.
BOARD 017 ummmns.
1015: Annual Meetlng.
117 Program Arrangements and Reglstratlon.
Mr. Brown
sumarlzed plans for the speclal receptlon belng glven by the Dlrectors for
the Executlve Contacts of member companles on the followlng evemng, pomp
mg out that 1:: purpose was to brlng about closer communlcatlon between the
Board of Dlrectors and member company executlve contacts 1n keeplng Hlth 1
the emphasls on better communlcatlon throughout the Assoclatlon contalned 1n
the Kane Commlttee Report; Dlrectors were urged to make maxlmum umur
tlon of the receptlon for thls puzpose.
Mr. Carnes reported that advance reglstratlon for the
Annual Meetlng totaled gun to be accommodated 1n The Greenbrler mm 11
others 1n local motels. 154 member companles belng represented.
(27 Future Annual Meetlng Dates.
The SecretaryiTreasurer
reported that the management of The Greenbrler had conflmed the followlng
dates for the Annual Meetlng for the next Elva years:
June
June
June
June
June
1214, 1975
10712, 1975
(by Proposed Epldemlologlcal Study on me1 Chlorlde.
Forwarded
to Dlrectors 1n advance of the meetlng and presented by Chalman mlson was a
proposal for an epldemlologlcal study on Vinyl chlorlde 1nvolv1ng the medlcal
records of 1ndustrlally exposed workers and supplementlng the anlmal testlng
program approved 1n January 1973, copy appended as Exhlblt A. The proposed
study had been consldered and 1:5 approval recommended by the Executlve Com?
mlttee.
cm 012531
1424
on MOTION. duly made and seconded,
1: was:
voTED: That the proposed epldemlologlcal
study on Vinyl chlorlde, as set forth 1n Ex*
mm: A, be approved.
1C7 Report of Subcommlttee Studylng Means to Increase MCA
Effectlveness, Partlcularly 1n Government Relatlons Area.
Forwarded m
Dlrectors 1n advance of the meetlng and summarlzed by Dr. Kane was the
report of the subcommlttEE, of whlch he was Chalman, appolnted to study
means to 1ncrease MCA effectlveness, partlcularly 1n Government Relatlons
area. copy appended as Exhibit B.
on MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1:
was:
voTED: That the report of the subcomlttee,
as set forth 1n Exhibit B. together Hlth 1::
recommended agenda for MCA Board meetlngs
and schedule of 1973774 Dlrectors' meetlngs,
be approved and, further, that the subcommlttee
be congratulated for 1:: fine work.
(:17 Proposed Extenslon of Tenure of the Ad Hoc Commlttee on
Chemlcals Regulatlon.
Forwarded m Dlrectors 1n advance of the meetlng
and presented by Chalrman mlson was a proposal to extend the tenure of the
Ad Hoc Commlttee on Chemlcals Regulatlon, copy appended as Exhlblt c.
The proposal had been consldered by the Executlve Commlttee at 1:5 meetlng
earller 1n the day and 1:5 approval recommended.
on MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1:
was:
voTED: That the proposed extenslon of
tenure of the Ad Hoc Commlttee on Chemlcals
Regulatlon, as set forth 1n Exhlblt c, be ap*
proved.
(E7 Report of Membershlp Commlttee.
In the absence of Chalri
man Drake. the SecretaryiTreasurer reported on behalf of the Membershlp
Commlttee that appllcatlons had been recelved from Dlxle Chemlcal Company,
Inc. , of Houston. Texas, and Rublcon Chemlcals Inc. of Gelsmar, Louisiana,
and that 1n the opinion of the Membershlp Commlttee the appllcants were
quallfled for membershlp under the Assoclatlon's Bylaws.
0N MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1:
was:
voTED: That the appllcants be elected to
membershlp 1n the Assoclatlon.
cm 012532
EXHIBIT A
Proposed
Epldemlologlcal Study on Vlnyl Chlorlde
supplementary to the annual testlng program on
vmyl chlorlde (monomer) approved 1n January 1973 for
MCA admlnlstratlon. there 15 a deslre to proceed now
mm an epldemlologlcal study of the medlcal records of
1ndustrlally exposed workers.
Companles that are also supportlng the annual
testlng program have volunteered funds on the same sub?
scrlptlon basls to defray antlclpated costs ranglng
from a probable mmmum of 572,000 up to a tentatlvely
estlmated maxlmum of about $92,000.
Tabersnawmoper Assoclates, Inc., Berkeley,
(13115.. has been chosen to conduct the study, after
conslderatlon of several candldates.
A tune perlod of
eight months has been projected.
Management of the project on behalf of MCA would
follow the same pattern as provlded for the annual
testlng program.
MCA
cm 012533
EXHIBIT B
mmmcmnms CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
1925 commencm AVENUE. N. w.
WASHINGTON. u. c, 20009
12027 49375125
May a, 1973
MCA Board of Dlrectors
From:
Speclal Commlttee:
Edward R. KanE, Chalrman
3. Harold Bible
George w. Russell
FINAL upon
The objectlve of thls commlttee, formed at the FebruaryiExecutlve
Commlttee meetlng, was to study how to make MCA more effectlve, Hlth
partlcular reference to, but not llmlted to, Washlngton and government
relatlons. A prellmlnary report was made to the Executlve Commlttee
and m the Board 1n March. and several suggestlons were approved.
The commlttee feels that thls report represents only a flrst step
towards strengthenlng MCA and that the effectlveness of MCA ought to be
revlewed annually by the Executlve Commlttee and the Board.
Dlscusslons Hlth a cross sectlon of Board members, MCA staff,
and member company personnel servlng on MCA commlttees and on the
Washlngton scene polnted m a central need and opportunlty m unprove
communlcatlons. The commlttee belleves MCA'S communlcatlons can be
1mproved 1n 3 number of areas by ellmlnatlng layerlng, sharpenlng objerk
tlves, focuslng efforts on key groups, and coordlnatlng the actlvltles of
Varlous parts of the Assoclatlon.
Therefore. the followlng steps are recommended to strengthen
MCA'S communlcatlons:l
1. The agenda for Board meetlngs should be revamped to 1nclude
addltlonal reports from chalmen of technlcal and functlonal commlttees,
a regular revlew of leglslatlve actlvlty by the Dlrector of Government Raf
latlons. and periodic reports from other MCA staff members, as set forth
1n the recommended agenda attached as Exhibit A. The four Board Liaison
Commlttees should be ellmlnated. Also, the scene should be set 1n 3 way
CMA 035303
that Hill permlt polnted questlonlng regardlng, and crltlcal dlscusslon of,
MCA affalrs.
2. At least two more Board meetlngs should be held each year 1n
Washlngton to focus attentlon on governmental matters and to facllltate con*
tact: mm government personnel. A recommended schedule of Board meeti
lngs for 1973774 15 attached as Exhibit B.
3. Closer communlcatlon between Executlve Contacts, especlally
those who are MCA Board members, and personnel from thelr companles
who serve on technlcal and functlonal commlttees 15 Very much 1n order and
needs to be encouraged.
4. The Executlve CommlttEE, 1n confomlty mm suggested changes
1n Board procedures and 1n addltlon to 1:: present actlvltles, should make an
annual revlew of MCAl a effectlveness, 1nclud1ng the work of, as well as the
need for, the Varlous commlttees. Any actlon whlch would have a Significant
flnanclal unpact should be declded upon prior to January, when development
of the budget beglns. The Executlve Commlttee should also formulate a 115:
of the most crltlcal lssues faclng the 1ndustry and 1nd1cate those lssues for
whlch MCA posltlons should be developed.
A letter should be sent from the Chalrman of the Board to all
Executlve Contacts followlng the June 1973 Greenbrler meetlng outllnlng the
newly adopted approaches and procedures for the 1973774 MCA year, and
sollcltlng thelr actlve 1nterest and partlclpatlon.
Board Meetlngs
The agenda for Board meetlngs Will be prepared by the Presldent,
followlng consultatlon as approprlate mm the Chalman of the Board and
sent to the Dlrectors well 1n advance of meetlngs. Routlne busmess of the
Assoclatlon should be dealt mm brlefly on the assumptlon that Dlrectors had
read the materlal whlch was supplled prior to the meetlng.
DE conslderable unportance 15 the arrangement of the agenda 1n such
a way that there can be approprlate questlonlng and dlscusslon regardlng
1mportant MCA matters. At some past meetlngs, several Board members
have felt the opportunlty for meanlngful dlscusslon was llmlted or precluded.
Provldlng for frank dellberatlon will permit a fuller contrlbutlon from the
Board and Hill recognlze the conslderable 1nvestment of time by Board mem*
bers. However. thls 1ncreased partlclpatlon by the Board 1n MCA affalrs
should not be permltted to dlmlnlsh the role and the effectlveness of the Ex*
ecutlve Commlttee.
The Presldent would present flrst an overvlew of MCA'S Situation,
provldlng perspectlve and priorities Hlth regard to unportant lssues, opi
portunltles. and problems.
CMA 035304
Th1: would be'followed by a brlef leglslatlve report from the
Dlrector of Government Relatlons plus reports from any other members
of the MCA staff who have an unportant matter to brlng m the Board's
attentlon.
Next. three or four chalrmen of technlcal or functlonal com?
mlttees would report on substantlve matters pendlng 1n those commlttees.
Routlne organlzatlonal matters and accompllshments should be excluded.
The four Board Liaison Commlttees have helped a great deal, but there
15 a prevalllng opinion that the growlng complexlty and unportance of th
lssues the 1ndustry 15 faclng requlre the actlve and threat 1nvolvement of
the Board. and that to shorten communlcatlons llnes the liaison Comml
tees should be dlssolved.
Onsithlrd of the 24 MCA commlttees currently have chalrmen
from companles whlch are not represented on the Board. When one 0
these chalrmen reports to the Board, the Executlve Contact from 5 com?
pany should be 1nv1ted to attend the meetlng.
The above format would nomany take two hours, and thls tune
should be regularly allotted 1n plannlng schedules.
Two more Washlngton Board meetlngs (January and October)
would 1mprove communlcatlons conslderably. Such meetlngs uld also
help focus Board attentlon on the crltlcal matters 1n th governmental
area. and provlde an opportunlty the night before the B ard meetlng for
members to have dlnner mm government people. The su essful Chemlcal
Forum luncheon: would be tled 1n the next day. Good 366 work and cook
dlnated efforts are called for here to see that MCA 1nterests are effectlvely
conveyed to the government.
mm regard to reglonal Board meetlngs, the Frog Commlti
tee ought to devote speclal attentlon m 1ncrea mg thelr value to those at?
tendlng by provldlng a program whlch contrlbu s 1n51ght 1nto reglonal
1ndustry 1nterests, especlally governmental tlvltles.
Government Relatlons Actlvlty
Communlcatlons among the Government Relat n5 staff, other
MCA staff members, the technlcal and fun lonal commlttees, and Wash?
lngton representatlves of member compan as should be 1mproved through
more fomallzed procedures.
In the past, MCA has been stymled at 1mes by an inability to
reach unanlmous agreement 1n the Va lous commlttees on what posltlon to
take and by a cumbersome clearance procedure. In the future, commlti
tees should try to proceed promp y m a declslon and where unanlmlty 15
unattalnable. majorlty and mm ty Vlews should be referred to the Execui
tlve Commlttee for conslderatl n.
CMA 035305
Exhibit A
Recommended Agenda for m card Meetlngs
Opening Remarks and Intr uctlon of Guests.
Approval of Mlnutes of evlous Meetlng.
111.
Approval ofReport of ecretaryiTreasurer.
Forwarded 1n advanc of the meetlng; no summary requlred.
MCA Busmess Items
Erlef dlscusslon; materlal forwarded 1n advance.
Presldent's Rep t.
An overvlew of CA actlvltles and major lssues faclng
the Assoclat n. Priorities and timing are 1nd1cated,
and advance otlce 15 provlded on the need for develop*
ment of po itlons. Dlscusslon of other unportant matters
mm Dlr tors.
Report om Dlrector of Government Relatlons.
v11.
Repo s from other MCA Staff Groups,
v11 .
Re arts from Chalmen of Technlcal and Functlonal Commlttees.
journment.
A 035305
EXHIB T
B
Propo ed Rat ntlon of Economlc Consultant to Supply the
Econo 1:: Data for the chemlcal Industry's Posltlon on
the I dustrlal Reorganlzatlon Act (Hart 3111 7 5. 11577
LEGAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE
EcoNo 1c POLICY REVIEW COMMITTEE
Sena: r Hart has 1ntroduced a blll 15. 11577 1ntended m caulk
tats he breaklngiup of large corporatlons 1n 3 number of 1ndustr1es,
1nclu mg the chemlcal 1ndustry. Hearlngs before his Subcommltt e
an An ltrust and Monopoly of the Senate Judlclary Commlttee began
Li’s: ear and Hill contlnue durlng thls year and next.
There have
alrea y been two serles of hearlngs on the general merlts or demeri
1:: the b111, and one serles devoted to communlcatlons, party
cula y the Bell System.
A 5e as on the automoblle 1ndustry Hill
begl February 25.
The hemlcal 1ndustry 15 not llkely to have 1::
day n court for many months to come.
wml there 15 llttle prospect of the enactment of s. 1157 1n
1:: resent form, there 15 a danger that some elements of 1: may
beco a law.
More Var. the Hart hearlngs are a forum 1n whlch major
1ndu trles are under publlc attack, and the chemlcal 1ndustry should
be r ady mi defend 1tself.
1: 1 not posslble at thls polnt to pre*
chat the character of the hearlngs on our 1ndustry. As 1n the case
of t a Bell System, one major company may be chosen for attack.
»5 eems llkely to be the case mm the motor 1ndustry, our ...ent1re
1nd stry may be exposed to rlgorous revlew.
1: s not known at prebent whether MCA Will be asked to appear...nor has 1: been declded
whe her. 15 not asked. MCA would choose to Volunteer 1:5 testlmony.
How Ver. 1: seems to the above commlttees the course of prudence
m a prepared for all contlngencles. Accordlngly, we propose that
MCA engage prof. Steven Lustgarten of Baruch college as a consultant
to ssemble and organlse data demonstratlng that the chemlcal many
tr 1: not 1n need of deconcentratlon under Senator Hart's proposed
"1 dustrlal Reorganlsatlon Act" 7 that 1: 1:, 1n fact, mgnly com?
pe 1t1VE, open to new entrants, and a force restralnlng rather than
su talnlng 1nflatlon (the detalled proposal of Prof. Lustgarten 1:
3p endedy.
Th proposal 1: budgeted for a cost of $17,537. Th1: flgure
d s not 1nclude the cost of printing.
T e declslon whether to
p 1n: the study and 1n what form 15 a separate questlon, m be
alded when 1: 15 completed.
CA
A 039330
exhlblt
STAFF REPORT
February 1972
by
Wllllam J . Drlver
v
b
AZElAicjti
mama
mmsmmr NIon...
...1n hls State of the Unlon message, emphaslsed the Admlni
lstratlon's leglslatlve proposals whlch were 1ntroduced last
year and on whlch congresslonal actlon has not yet been comi
plated.
Speclflcally, the Presldent urged the Congress to
take early actlon on welfare resom, health servlces, revenue
sharlng, the envlronment, consumer protectlon and transports?
tlon.
In addltlon m stresslng the need for actlon on proposed eni
Vlronmental leglslatlon, the Presldent stated he would soon be
sendlng m the Congress a message on the envlronment that would
present "further admlnlstratlve and leglslatlve initiatives."
The Presldent also 1nd1cated that he would soon propose new leglsJ
latlon concernlng:
A new technology program, wlth federal
1ncrease prlvate research, and
1ncent1ves m
Federally supported research on a range of projects
deslgned "m unprove our everyday llves."
Another area 1nvolv1ng new leglslatlve proposals concerns edui
catlon.
The Presldent stated he would recommend later 1n the
year a new way of flnanclng publlc schools to supplant rellance
on local property taxes.
mule no detalls were glven, 1: 15 under?
stood the Admlnlstratlon has been studylng the concept of a Valueadded tax as a means of raising revenue to pay for local schools.
However. passage of such leglslatlon thls year 15 1mprobable.
THE 92m: cousngss...
...reconvened on January 19 to start what leaders 1n both
houses hope H111 be an abbrevlated Second Sesslon.
Slghts are
set on adjournment by Labor Day.
In the envlronmental area two measures undoubtedly H111 be
enacted: water pollutlon and pestlcldes control.
The water b111, s. 2770, passed the Senate 1n November.
1::
House counterpart has been approved 1n prlnclple by the Publlc
Works CommlttEE, and passage by April 15 llkely.
The pestlclde b111, 3.x. 10729, passed the House last November.
Conslderatlon by the Senate Agrlculture Commlttee has not yet been
scheduled. but probably H111 be 1n the next month or so.
Enacti
men: 1n about 5114 months 15 posslble.
cm 036161
Toxlc substances leglslatlon, whlch 15 under conslderatlon
by the Senate Subcommlttee on the Envlronment under the actlng
llkely m be approved thls year even though a draft has been
prepared by commlttee staff and 15 55m to be ready for executlve
sesslon conslderatlon.
We have. however. complled wlth the request made by Senator
Spong durlng our testlmony last November 5.
In a letter dated
January 5, our Vlews were transmltted concernlng these aspects
of Amendment No. 339. 1n whlch we questloned both:
The adequacy and usefulness of the deflnltlon of
"chemlcal substances," as stated 1n Sectlon 202, and
The potentlal Value of a "provlslonal certlflcatlon
subject to recall" as a means of shortenlng the ad?
ministratlve delays 1nc1dent to full certlflcatlon.
In the consumer protectlon area, at least two measures probably
H111 become law:
5. 996, the Consumer Product Warrantles and Federal Trade Cami
mlsslon Improvement Act of 1971.
1: passed the Senate 1n November
and should get through the House m:nm the next few months.
And:
3.x. meas, the Consumer Protectlon Act of 1971, whlch passed
the House 1n October.
Th1: mu would create an 1ndependent Coni
sumer Protectlon Agency, and is expected to pass the Senate,
posslbly 1n 3 more strlngent com than the House Verslon.
There 15 less chance of completed actlon on product safety
leglslatlon. although a House Interstate and Forelgn Commerce
Subcommlttee 15 currently conductlng hearlngs on 3.x. sun, 3
product safety mm.
In the labor area, the flrst order of buslness 15 Senate
conslderatlon of the Equal Employment Dpportunlty Commlsslon
Floor debate began on January 19 and
actlon was expected to be completed by the end of the month.
A House measure concernlng thls subject passed that body 1n
September.
In that Verslon. 3.x. 9247, EEOC would have to
request court actlon to enforce "ceasemandideslst" orders.
Under the Senate b111, as reported by the Senate Labor and
Publlc Welfare CommlttEE, EEOC would have "ceasemandideslst"
powers.
Minimum wage 1 eglsl atlon 15 llkely m be enacted thls
sesslon.
3.x. 7130, reported by the House Educatlon and Labor
Commlttee 1n November, would boost the minimum wage to $2 an
hour.
The Senate Labor Subcommlttee has under conslderatlon
s. 1951 whlch would ralse the minimum wage to $2 an hour the
year of enactment, and $2.25 one year later.
cmnz~1~2
1
3
Emergency strlke leglslatlon 15 a hot lssue due to the West
Coast dock strlke.
on January 21 . Presldent leon submltted a
message m the Congress requestlng leglslatlon to halt 1:, and
a mm was 1ntroduced by Senators Bob Packwood (RrDreJ and
Jacob Javlts (R.7N.Y.7 as Senate Jolnt Resolutlon 197.
The
full Senate Labor Commlttee began hearlngs on January 27 and
was expected to complete conslderatlon of the proposal wlthln
a week.
The measure would provlde for the appolntment of a 3*man
Arbltratlon Board to hear and settle the lssues.
No strlke or
lockout would be permltted from the date the leglslatlon was
enacted untll the day the Arbltratlon Board makes us deter?
mlnatlon.
The Board's detemlnatlon would be made wlthln 4n
days and would be binding on 511 partles for 19 months.
The Presldent also requested enactment of the emergency Publlc
Interest Protectlon Act of 1971 15. Sam and 3.x. 35967, thch
would provlde pemanent authorlty to settle strlkes 1n the trans*
portatlon 1ndustry.
s
mule llmlted leglslatlon to stop the West Coast dock strlke
may be passed. 1: H111 be extremely dlfflcult to get permanent
antlistrlke leglslatlon through 1n an electlon year.
Trade leglslatlon was significantly omltted from the Presldent's
State of the Unlon message.
1: appears the Admlnlstratlon omltted
the lssue 1n order m avold provldlng a forum for conslderatlon of
the Hartke43urke mm or. other protectlonlst or restrlctlve trade
proposals.
In Vlew of the broad scope of the Hartkeﬁsurke measure
(5. 2592mm. 109147, 1: 15 recelvlng the attentlon of several MCA
committeesﬁmonomc Pollcy Revlew, Tax Pollcy, Internatlonal
Trade and Government Relatlons.
The latter commlttee held a meet?
mg on January 27 m dlscuss the Varlous courses of actlon whlch
mlght be taken by MCA should thls proposal come up for congressmm
51 hearlngs.
Also. the Senate Commerce Commlttee has under conslderatlon
the Export Expanslon Act of 1971, s. 2754, on whlch the Admlnlsi
tratlon has not expressed a posltlon.
Publlc hearlngs were
held by the Commlttee's Subcommlttee on Forelgn Commerce and
Tourlsm durlng the week of January 24.
More are scheduled later
1n February.
Our Internatlonal Trade Commlttee recommends that
wrltten\test1mony be submltted.
A proposed draft 1: 1n preparationoopmcn H111 echo posltlons we have prevlously taken wlth
regard to expandlng exports.
THE momma POLICY REVIEW comrrmg...
cmnzalaz
...wh1ch you recently establlshed, held 1:: flrst meetlng on
January 19 and consldered matters relatlng to Phase 11 economlc
pollcy and m the economlc 1ncent1ves for research and development
proposed by Presldent leon 1n hls State of the Unlon message.
The commlttee ls chalred by Wllllam s. Sheath, Presldent of
Unlon Carblde Cozporatlon.
Davld c. Wllllams ls servlng as MCA
Staff Secretary.
THE ENVIRONMENTAL pnomcrmu AGENCY 13pm .. .
...w111 conduct hearlngs on proposed emlsslon standards
concernlng mercury, asbestos and berylllum as hazardous alr
pollutants as follows:
New York. New York
January 19
Kansas Clty, Missouri
February 1
Los Angeles, Callfornla
February 15
In accordance wlth the Clean Alr Act Amendments of 197m,
EPA'S Admlnlstrator:
Is authorlzed to set emlsslon standards for exlstlng sources
of alr contamlnants whlch he 61nd: m be hazardous. and
Can delay constructlon of a new emlsslons source for such
alr pollutants untll he flrst determlnes that the new source”
is properly operated, H111 not Vlolate hls standards.
MCA 1: not partlclpatlng 1n the above hearlngs.
However.
several member companles whlch produce chlorlne and caustlc by
the mercury cell process are actlve through the Chlorlne
Instltute.
Last December 23, standards of performance for atmospherlc
*emlsslons from new or substantlally modlfled sulfurlc and nltrlc
acld plants were promulgated by EPA, together wlth those for
flxed steam generators, Portland cement plants, and munlclpaltype 1nc1nerators.
We submltted carefully documented comments
on the proposed standards followlng thelr publlcatlon last
August 17.
However. the flnal Verslon took llttle cognlzance
of the economlc and technologlcal factors we presented.
As a result. nlne sulfurlc acld producers, representlng ap*
proxlmately an of the 1ndustry's productlon capaclty, have
jolned to seek judlclal revlew of the standards for sulfurlc
acld plants.
MCA 1: not 1nvolved.
EPA has announced 1:: 1ntentlon to propose Federal standards
of perfomance for atmospherlc emlsslons from petrochemlcal
processes at an early date, and has 1nv1ted the Assoclatlon m
nomlnate 1ndustry representatlves m an 1nformal advlsory grout!
to supplement the technlcal expertlse of the EPA staff.
In
spite of llmlted success 1n prevlous efforts, we feel we should
contlnue to cooperate, and we thank our members for Volunteerlng
thelr experts to serve on such advlsory bodles.
EPA 15 soon expected to publlsh proposed regulatlons governi
mg control of hazardous substances 1n relatlon to water quallty
control. whlch have long been 1n preparatlon.
We are seeklng an
opportunlty for our technlcal speclallsts to cooperate 1n pre*
publlcatlon revlew of the proposal.
cm n35154
r
cmmmc...
...the Chemlcal Emergency Transportatlon Center, has recelved
over 2nnn 1nbound call's Since 1:: 1nceptlon September 5, 1971.
Some 2m calls concerned 1nc1dents 1nvolv1ng chemlcals 1n translt.
Many were made 51mply m conflrm cammm's exlstence.
A Slgnk
flcant but dwlndllng number of calls resulted from the telephone
company havlng asslgned cammc the dlscontlnued reservatlon
number of the Howard Johnson motel chaln.
Asslstance has been provlded 1n situations ranglng from major
traln derallments m leaks 1n small packages.
Tank cars and
drums have been the contalners 1nvolved 1n about twoithlrds of
the 1nc1dents reported.
Two problems 1nvolv1ng ships 1n 5mm:
1n the Pacific Ocean have been successfully handled and one call
was from Alaska.
Durlng cmmmc plannlng, 1: was antlclpated that calls from
emergency servlces (flre, pollcey would predomlnate.
So far.
however. carrlers are far ahead 1n maklng use of the servlce.
Hopefully, thls H111 dlspose of many problems before they need
emergency attentlon.
Dperatlng experlence to date conflrms the Valldlty of the
chosen approach W provldlng 1mmedlate 1nfomatlon from Elle;
then utilizing the expertlse of shlppers.
s
Reactlon m cammm has been good from carrlers and emer*
gency servlces allke.
Prompt company followup has been an m,
portant factor 1n thls achlevement and cooperatlon by member
companles generally as well as many nonmembers has been excel:
lent.
Durlng the week of March a, several workshops on cmmmc
H111 be conducted by 1:: Manager, John :7. Zercher, 1n Los Angeles,
San Franclscm Portland and Seattle.
Target audlences are: flre,
pollce and other emergency personnel plus nonimember chemlcal
companles.
West Coast asslstance 15 by the Southern Callfornla
Chemlcal Manufacturers Assoclatlon and the Chemlcal Industry
Counclls of Northern Callfornla and the Pacific Northwest.
PHTHALATES...
...part1cularly phthalate esters used as plastlclzers for
plastlcs, malnly polyvlnyl chlorlde, have been the subject of
5775 number of news ltems over the past year Calllng attentlon
...m potentlal health and ecologlcal consequences from thelr
wldespread use.
1
As yet there have been no allegatlons of ham to human health.
However. researchers are concerned about finding these substances
1n the heart muscle of Varlous annuals. extractlon by the blood
1n hospltal contalners and effects observed 1n experlmental
annuals.
cm 036165
As a result. one of our member companles suggested a con?
ference among technlcal representatlves of 1nterested companles,
m dlscuss reported findings and conslder collectlve actlon. A
meetlng for thls purpose 1: scheduled at MCA headquarters on
February 24.
t
THE NATIONAL BUREAU 0F STANDARDS...
...has publlshed a "World Index of Plastlcs Standards,"
a 115: of more than snnn natlonal and 1nternatlonal standards
on plastlcs and related materlals whlch were 1n effect as of
The publlcatlon, su Catalogue No. 1 3.1 n:352 ,
15 $5.50 per copy and may be ordered from the Superlntendent of
Documents, v.5. Government Prlntlng Offlce, Washlngton, n. c.
2nqn2.
THE mum.
”.5“ our onsihour sesslon at the Annual Conventlon of the
General Federatlon of Women's Clubs on June 9 1n Denver. Colorado
1ncludes: Mrs. Virginia Knauer, Speclal Asslstant m the Presldent
for Consumer Affalrs; Dr. Rlchard Kenyon, Dlrector of Publlc
Affalrs and the Communlcatlons Dlvlslon of the Amerlcan Chemlcal
Soclety and Carl A. Gerstacker, Chalrman of the Board,. The Dow
Chemlcal Company.
Mrs. Peggy Walton, my: Manager of Consumer
Informatlon, H111 moderate.
cm 036166
1
EXHIBIT A
TAFF PROPOSAL
oncernlng
1r Quallty Commlttee Membershlp
u nald c. Wlnson
a February 10, 1970, at the request of the Alr
o allty Commlttee, the Board of Dlrectors approved
r gularlzatlon of the membershlp of Donald c. wlnson
o thls commlttee.
M . Wlnson, an outslde counsel
re resentlng Alcoa, was recognlzed as a Valld exceptlon to the "General Prlnclples Appllcable m the
5: nature and Dperatlons of Commlttees" provlslon
th t membershlp be restrlcted m fullitlme employees
of member companles.
Th 5 actlon was made subject
to annual staff revlew and Board reconflmatlon. and
on February 9, 1971, such reconflrmatlon was granted
by the Board.
As the factors leadlng m the earller request
re aln equally Valld, the staff recommends the Board
3p rove Mr. Wlnson's contlnuatlon as a member of the
A1 Quallty Commlttee, subject to staff revlew and
Bo rd reconflmatlon at the end of another year.
s: cc Proposal of February 10,
19 n, 15 attached
to 1nfomatlon.
cm 035159
ST F PROPOSAL
co cernlng
A1 Quallty Commlttee Membershlp
of
Do ald c. Wlnson
Fr k L. Seamans, outslde counsel of the Alumlnum Company
of merlca, was on the charter roster of the Air Quallty Commlttee
whe 1: was organlzed 1n 1949, and was an outstandlng contrlbutor
:9 ts program 1n the early years. Upon adoptlon of the "General
Prl clples Appllcable to the Structure and Dperatlons of Commlttees"
1n 953, on his own 1n1tlatlve he 1nqu1red whether the requlrement
of 'merrbericompany fullitlme employee" for commlttee membershlp
wou d affect his status. General Hull, then MCA presldent, rul d
tha thls praiexlstlng menlbershlp could contlnue undlsturbed.
In 954, Alcoa nomlnated Donald (:1 WinsDn, a member of Mr.
Se ans' legal mm, as successor to Mr. Seamans. The record of
B05 d approval 1nd1cates only that Mr. Wlnson represents Alcoa,
n: no evldence of recognltlon that he was not an Alcoa employee.
The 1rregular1ty of ms membershlp was brought out 1n 3 recent
gen ral revlew of commlttees by Staff Counsel.
The Alr Quallty Commlttee 15 eager for Mr. Wlnson to con*
tln a 1n full partlclpatlon. 315 background of legal speculur
tlo 1n 1ndustrlal air pollutlon 15 comparatlvely rare, and ms
lea ershlp at thls juncture 15 especlally valuable. He has been,
and 15 personally 1nterested 1n contlnulng to be, an actlve coni
trl utor m the Commlttee's needs. He can be partlcularly helpful
1n he organlzatlon and development of the recently authorlzed
J01 t Subcommlttee on Alr and Water Pollutlon Leglslatlon and
Reg latlons.
Ace rdlngly, prlmarlly as a "grandfather" case and as such
not otherwlse settlng a precedent, and secondarlly 1n recognltlon
of ontlnulng need by the Commlttee for the servlces he 15 pecui
ha ly able to render, the staff recommends that the Board of
Dlr ctors regularlze the membershlp of Donald c. Wlnson on the
Alr Quallty Commlttee as an acknowledged exceptlon to the membercompany fullitlme employee quallflcatlon, subject to staff revlew
and Board reconflmatlon annually.
CMA 3515“
Exhibit D
upon TO THE 13mm: OF DIRECTORS
mmmmmms CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
BAILEY BARTON. CHAIRMAN
AIR QUALITY COMMITTEE
APRIL 13,
1975
1: 15 a pleasure to be here today to report on the Alr Quallty
Commlttee's actlvltles.
Slnce my last presentatlon, 1n February,
1975, we have. I behave, made some substantlal contrlbutlons to
the 1nterests of the Manufacturlng Chemlsts Assoclatlon.
I would be remlss, however. 15 I characterlzed our efforts
as belng successful 1n meetlng our objectlves.
You may recall that
I descrlbed 1975 as the "year of opportunlty" for amendlng the Clean
Alr Act 1n 3 posltlve way.
1: 1: true that the actlvlty of Congress
1n Clean Alr Leglslatlon served to restraln the fervor of the EPA 1n
enforclng 1975 deadllnes of the Clean Alp Act...as dld a few court
cases...but the leglslatlon actually emerglng from Congresslonal Com?
mlttees offers preclous llttle prospect of maklng the Act more rea*
sonable.
1: appears, 1n fact, that our envlronmentallst frlends also
saw 1975 as a "year of opportunlty" and selzed the initiative 1n mi
fluenclng even more strlngent provlslons than prevlously exlsted.
Industry may, for example, petition extenslon from the prevlous dead?
llnes, but must meet ngm Criteria, Halve some of 1:5 rlghts, and be
prepared to Either post perfomance bonds or actually pay penaltles
for the delay.
Most crltlcal, however. are the provlslons of both
House and Senate deflnlng "antldegradatlon" or "slgnlflcant deterk
oratlon" 1n arbltrary numerlcal or percentage terms.
These prov1*
slons. coupled mm another "plannlng" process, cannot avold a
substantlal and 1nev1table confrontatlon Hlth 1ndustrlal growth and
development.
Undoubtedly, you are already aware of these and other extrai
polatlons of these amendments, so I won't belabor the lssues.
Our
Commlttee prepared, and MCA submltted, several commentarles and
posltlon papers to Congress on these amendments...as have many trade
assoclatlons.
Some concesslons have been obtalned...but the only
posltlve report I can make, today, 15 that these amendments are not
yet law.
Untll they become so, I pledge the Alr Quallty Commltt
15
contlnued dlllgence 1n attemptlng m brlng about constructlve leg?
1513mm.
CMA 035912
1
2
We have also been Very actlve 1n Envlronmental Protectlon Ag nay
r gulatory proceedlngs.
The two areas whlch were alted last year are
5:111 the "hot" ones.
EPA, Hlth one notable exceptlon, has elected to j
employ Sectlon III to regulate emlsslons of substances whlch the Admlni >
lstrator may reasonably belleve constltute" a hazard.
The exceptlon,
of courSE, 15 the Agency's cholce of Sectlon ll2...the imminent hazard
provlslon...to propose Vinyl chlorlde monomer limitations.
The Agency
1
has found that regulatlon of such emlsslons as sulfurlc acld mlst usmg .
Sectlon III requlres far lea: substantlatlon than a new amblent alr
quallty standard.
Moreover. EPA prefers the equlpment efflclency
approach...best practlcable treatment, 15 you Hill...fthlch thls sectlon
provldes.
We belleve our Commlttee's careful scrutlny of these regui
latlons. and the propenslty of 1nd1v1dual company members to lltlgate
the lssues they challenge, have served to reduce the rate of promulgai
tlon of such regulatlons.
We expect to contlnue followlng Agency actlon
from inception to promulgatlon on the multltude of materlals waltlng...
In thls way, we belleve MCA member compai
mes Hill proflt by both technlcal 1nput and upitoidate communlcatlon
of impending problems.
The second area I mentloned last year has a speclal Significance.
The hydrocarboniphotochemleal oxldant lssue...embryon1c last February...
has reached full flower as a publlshed pollcy of EPA.
You may r call
that the Agency has concluded that all hydrocarbon emlsslons are ultk
mately oxldant...or smog...fom1ng compounds and must be controlled.
They are pressurlng the states to tlghteniup hydrocarbon emlsslon 11m?
1:: 1n the hypothetlcal hope of meetlng amblent air oxldant standards.
Th1: 15 bemg manlfest 1n storage tank Vapor control.requ1rements,
revlslon of the former "Rule 55" photochemlcallyireactlve compound
11mm: to reflect broader "Volatlle organlc, and, generally, 1n the
transportatlon control strategy approach.
Major 1mpact of thls shlft 1n EPA pollcy 15 bemg felt by our
1ndustry 1n the State of Texas where hydrocarbon controls are belng
thrust upon them by EPA'S 1nfamous Raglan v1.
In an effort to head
off the potentlally large expendltures thus requlred, the MCAnafflli
late Texas Chemlcal Councll has requested our asslstance.
Locally,
th y have been jolned by the Houston Chamber of Commerce and possess
the indirect support of the Texas Alr Quallty Board staff.
Through
1:5 own channels. the Amerlcan Petroleum Instltute 15 pursulng a
parallel course of opposltlon to EPA'S hypothesls.
1
1
CMADM913
In a November. 1975 presentatlon to top MCA staff and Alr
Quallty Commlttee offlcers, ch leadershlp provlded the outllnes
of a fouripolnt program.
The moraidetalled technlcal plans were
presented to the full A11“ Quallty Commlttee 1n January, 1975 1n
Houston. Texas...where we had shlfted our meetlng for the purpose.
Our Commlttee sought out portlons of the Tea program 1n whlch we
could best serve all member companles.
We are preparlng endeavors
to obtaln emlsslon control cost data from member companles and
deflnltlve 1nfomatlon on hydrocarbonioxldant relatlonshlps 1n
several cltles.
Speclflc proposals for Board authorlzatlon of
fundlng should be completed shortly and, 1n our Vlew, they repre*
sent substantlve support to the Texas Chemlcal Councll's request
for help.
Th1: 15 also a prlmary result of our Commlttee's rather
dlfflcult task' of negotlatlng a Verltable maze of alternatlve
approaches to thls Very complex questlon.
In a related develop*
ment, EPA has 1nv1ted MCA AQC partlclpatlon 1n 3 Reactlvlty
Task Group whlch we expect Hill provlde another avenue to explori
mg the uncertalntles of supportlng data 1n the near future.
I am aware that 1: has been over a year Since I told you that
$100,000 was a reasonable sum to budget for thls effort...and I am
grateful that you chose to budget halfithat, $50,000, even though
we have not untll now, offered a speclflc recommendatlon for 1::
expendlture.
The data base whlch supports EPA'S contentlons has
so many uncertalntles that we have deemed 1: necessary to explore
numerous posslble avenues before focuslng on the one whlch we
,belleve to be most productlve 1n terms of value recelved for money
spent.
I appreclate your patlence 1n thls matter and belleve that
our Commlttee's dellberatlons Since ch's flrst request 1n November
will reward thelr patlence as well.
I won't belabor the other Com?
mlttee and 1ntercomm1ttee actlvltles whlch are underway.
The fore*
golng have occupled most of the AQC'S recent attentlon and are
exemplary.
Turnlng to another area, of Commlttee Actlvlty...one to whlch
the Board responded to a concern expressed by all envlronmental
commlttee offlcers last year...we Very much appreclate the guldance
offered by Dr. Taufen's commlttee 1n resolvlng MCA Staff and tech?
nlcal commlttee relatlonshlp problems.
Clalr. Mr. Anderson. and Dr. Barnes were Very sensltlve to the
CMA 035914
4
questlons and comments whlch arose 1n our several sesslons, and
encouraged 1n1tlatlon of communlcatlons sesslons whlch have taken
us far down the road of enllghtenment.
Thls, I hope, will contlnue
Since 1: serves both the Commlttees and the MCA staff...and. ultk
mately, the membershlp of MCA.
Addltlonally, I would personally
recommend periodic, detalled revlew by a Board commlttee m 1nsure
expedltlous resolutlon of staff/Comnlttee confllcts.
I must mentlon two remalnlng problem areas whlch I Vlew as
chronlc.
First, the dellcate statutory and regulatory aspects of
our work requlre...1ndeed they demand...a unlque technlcal...legal
partnershlp m maxlmlze effectlveness.
We englneers tend to over*
look legal subtletles 1n calculatlng the true effects of governmeni
:51 proposals, so we need to rehearse our thoughts 1n concert Hlth
detallimlnded worklng lawyers.
The Legal Advlsory Commlttee has
addressed thls lssue and has offered constructlve recommendatlons.
However. translatlon of the abstract 1nto the concrete has been
dlfflcult to consummate.
The Alr Quallty Commlttee could be more
effectlve 15 we had a partlclpatlng attorney 1n our meetlngs and
statutory/regulatory revlews.
I brlng another unresolved...or perhaps I should say, "Tami
porarlly" resolved...problem to your attentlon today because I Vlew
1: as a chronlc and strengthisapplng enlgma.
For most of 1975 we
had four nomlnees and no place for them.
The bylaws say for us
to rotate off members when thls Situation ex1sts~but every plan
offered was rejected by the full commlttee.
1nally, the offlcers
ose, 1n the face of indignation, rebuke and even a threatened
1 Hsult, to rotate off four lax attendees and seat the nomnees,
b t much Valuable meetlng time had been lost 1n the debate.
I
In new, our recent solutlon Will only last untll the next nomlnee
c mes along.
I Will close my oral remarks by looklng ahead to future endeavors
A or a few moments.
I as the A11“ Quallty Commlttee's attentlon phaslng
fr m the old "nuts and bolts" control aspect 1nto the more exotlc
he 1th effects arena.
Th 5 Hill requlre a broader, much more soph15*
:1 ated data base. and perhaps more health orlented personnel to make
me nlngful contrlbutlons m Assoclatlon 1nterests.
I 150 envlslon
a ommlttee/staff necesslty to do much more extenslve lmage bulldlng...
or more properly...1mage repairing to counter the chemlcals = cancer
cm 035915
5
p5 chology.
So show we must convlnce Congress of our value.
An
mo t unportantly, 1 belleve we are all a part of a fundamental
st uggle to keep free enterprlse a Vlable concept 1n today's hostlle
cl ate.
Yo gentlemen. our
le ers, our mentors. and our sage ad?
v15 r5. hold the key to whether my generatlon Will take the relns of
on great Amerlcan cozporatlons or be relegated to clvll servants 1n
3 w bureaucracy, fomerly called busmess.
m: 1 success.
I
1
CMA 035915
Exhlblt E
REPORT TO THE BOARD 017 ummmns
MANUFACTURING CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
DENNIS P. BRIDGE. CHAIRMAN
soLm WASTES MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
APRIL 13, 1975
The prlmary 591m Wastes Management Commlttee (stcy concern
1: for leglslatlve proposals for scicalled "Hazardous Waste
Materlals".
For the last several years the stc reports have
1nd1cated leglslatlve actlvlty durlng the prevlous year and the
expectatlon of restrlctlve leglslatlon the followlng year. Al,
though I am pleased to say that these forebodlngs have not come
to pass, I qulckly note that the current sltuatlon 15 qulte
slmllar to that of past years leglslatlon may well be passed
durlng thls elect'lon year.
The flrst Significant act deallng
Hlth solld waste was passed 1n 1955 and the second leglslatlve
actlon followed 1n 197D.
Durlng 1975 there was leglslatlve
actlvlty 1n thls area and, assumlng Elva years to be a reasonable
gestatlon perlod, 1975 could be the year.
Th1: leglslatlon Will
not be as far reachlng as that bemg proposed for toxlc substances,
but 1: Hill slgnlflcantly 1mpact chemlcal process 1ndustry 1mm
operatlons.
Since the last stc report to the Board, there have been
nine major leglslatlve proposals, elther actual mm: or worklng
"drafts, concernlng solld waste.
of these the Senate Publlc Works
Commlttee 3111 s. 2150 sponsored by Senator Jennlngs Randolph
and the House Interstate and Forelgn Commerce Commlttee, Sub?
commlttee on Transportatlon and Commerce worklng draft as sponsored
by Congressman Rooney, are the two most llkely candldates for
enactment.
The Admlnlstratlon has not sponsored a mm but has
1nd1cated general support of s. 2150. We expect that each
proposal will reach 1:: respectlve floor 1n May.
Although mm some undeslrable provlslons. Senator Randolph's
mm 15 certalnly the more acceptable of the two proposals.
Both
documents contaln "Hazardous Waste" sectlons, but 5. 2150 1: much
less compllcated and 1: does not requlre federal approval for all
permlts for waste transport, treatment and storage, but rather
concentrates on state 1mplementatlon of a permlt system Similar
to current alr and water requlrements.
The Rooney proposal
requlres pemlts at both levels.
In addltlon 1: addresses several
cm 035917
1
1
1
1
areas not 1ncluded 1n 5. 2150 such as product and Contalner control
as a means of source waste reductlon and tax 1ncent1ves for recycllng. We belleve that the Rooney worklng draft will be modlfled
to resemble the Senate Publlc Works proposal.
Whatever the flnal form of the leglslatlon, MCA Hill strongly
espouse the concept of perfomance requlrements for waste dlsposal
rather than the predetermlnatlon or specification approach currently
belng fostered. Waste should be deemed hazardous only after 1::
toxlclty, quantlty and dlsposal slte have been carefully consldered.
Predetemlnatlon of a waste dlsposal method wlthout investigating
each of these parameters 15 counterproductlve because thls restrlcts
development of new technology and precludes the use of Vlable
alternatlves approprlate to speclflc geographlcal areas or to
avaliable equlpment. MCA Hill contend that the authorlty over
the areas of packaglng, transportatlon and storage of waste
materlals contlnue to be Vested 1n the v.5. Department of Trans*
portatlon.
Should adoptlon of a permlt system be unavoldable,
He Will advocate that the dlsposal slte rather than the generator
be the pemlttee and that state luvplementatlon of the permit
system under federal guldellnes 1: preferred over threat federal
1nterventlon.
Flnally, m provlde for reasonable regulatory
requlrements from both a technlcal and economlc Viewpoint, He
Will strlve for sufflclent time constralnts and flexlblllty 1n
any leglslatlon to accommodate the dearth of technology and dlsposal cost data currently avaliable to us.
Many of the states, most notably Texas and Callfornla, have
, passed solld waste management leglslatlon deallng mm hazardous
wastes.
Because thls leglslatlon has preceded federal hazardous
waste dlsposal actlvlty, 1: 15 qulte llkely that the EPA may
adopt those concepts fostered by these states whlch have proven
to be most workable.
stc monltors "Bellwether" states for
concepts whlch mlght be 1ncozporated 1nto federal regulatlons.
In addltlon liaison 15 belng malntalned Hlth the Natlonal Solid
Waste Management Assoclatlon (NSWMA7 m monltor 1:5 efforts to
develop a leglslatlve gulde for use by each state.
A1
1
stc leglslatlve actlvlty 15 dlrected almost solely to
dlsposal of hazardous wastes.
Chemlcal packaglng has not been
ralsed as an lssue to date.
Should thls occur. stC will ask the
Chemlcal Packaglng Commlttee's asslstance on thls matter whlch
15 of Vital 1mportance to the CPI from a marketlng as well as
dlsposal Viewpoint.
:1
cm 035919
A secondary but Very unportant stc concern 1: meanlngful
liaison Hlth the EPA.
Solid waste control 15 unlque among envlroni
mental concerns because the EPA has had a relatlvely long lead
time to perform research and gather data m establlsh regulatlons
on a more sclentlflc basls whlle 5:111 complylng mm the strlngent
time frame expected 1n the enabllng leglslatlon,
stc feels 1: 1mportant, especlally 1n Vlew of EPA'S 1ntent,
to present MCA posltlons at every opportunlty.
Durlng the past
year there have been three sallent examples of stc work Hlth EPA:
First, durlng our May 20721, 1975 meetlng, EPA'S Offlce
of Solid Waste Management Programs 105nm?) representatlves
made a presentatlon on an EPA 55.4 mllllon landflll project
belng conducted mm the state of Mlnnesota.
Th1: project
15 1ntended m determlne the effectlveness of modern land?
5111 deslgn and operatlonal technlques.
Several member
companles are followlng thls work closely.
Second, on
December 4, 1975, at one of four EPA publlc meetlngs on
hazardous waste, the Chalrman of stc presented comprehenslve
testlmony on behalf of MCA 1n response to a formal EPA
request for such 1nformatlon.
The EPA 15 now developlng
synopses of the Varlous comments as a basls for 1:: posltlon
on leglslatlon and on subsequent regulatlons.
Flnally, a
meetlng was held Hlth personnel from the EPA'S 591m and
Hazardous Waste Research Dlvlslon, Munlclpal Envlronmental
Research Laboratory 1n Clnclnnatl, ohm 1n conjunctlon Hlth
a regular stc meetlng.
stc members have repeatedly
expressed a deslre to 1nvest1gate the posslbllltles of
contractlng research work to £111 exlstlng data gaps 1n the
area of landflll dlsposal of potentlally hazardous wastes.
To avold dupllcatlon 1: 15 unportant that we ascertaln the
scope of EPA research actlvltles. The EPA presentatlon and
suggestlons were well recelved and Very beneflclal 1n
guiding us toward an approprlate research actlvlty, to be
identified by our Technlcal Subcommlttee.
A compendlum of 15 successful case hlstorles of waste
recycllng or resldua dlsposal 15 bemg developed by the Technlcal
Subcomlttee. Th1: document will provlde posltlve CPI 1nput m
Varlous leglslatlve and regulatory proposals mm respect to the
Significant amount of current work Within 1ndustry on dlsposal of
potentlally hazardous wastes.
A jolnt subcommlttEE, composed of representatlves of the
stc and Water Resources CommlttEE, was formed 1n 1974 to develop
guldellnes for deepiwell dlsposal.
Th1: document has just been
publlshed.
cm 035919
The concept of land use regulatlon contlnues m dlsturb
stc members and representatlves of the other envlronmental
commlttees.
Land use leglslatlon could be the most 1n51dlous
tool avaliable to those who would punltlvely regulate the CPI.
Forms of land use regulatlon are currently embodled 1n federal
alr, water and coastal zone management leglslatlon, and several
land use proposals have been made relatlve m solld waste d15*
posal. As a result of the total envlronmer.tal 1mpllcatlons of
thls lssue the Task Group on Land Use, conslstlng of two repre*
sentatlves from each of the three envlronmental commlttees. was
establlshed at the stC's request.
The group 15 to revlew the
questlon of land use Hlth respect to posslble unpllcatlons on
CPI operatlons and to make approprlate recommendatlons to the
MCA Board for actlon.
Durlng 1:5 organlzatlonal meetlng the
Group concluded that, prior to developmg recommendatlons for
MCA Board actlon, there 15 a deflnlte need to ascertaln current
CPI status mm respect to all exlstlng federal and reglonal
land use leglslatlon.
Because of the legal nature of the actlvlty,
MCA staff through the Joint Subcommlttee on Envlronmental Law
msgm or other legal source has been formally requested to
evelop thls 1nformatlon for the Task Group by July 1, 1975.
he Task Group will then develop 1:: recommendatlons m MCA
September, 1975.
e questlon of JSEL contlnuatlon, under revlew by the
L gal Advlsory Commlttee for some tlme, has reportedly been
r solved 1n that JSEL Hill remaln 1ntact and functlon 1n 3
m nner yet to be deflned. We have been assured by MCA staff
t at legal asslstance Will be avaliable upon request.
At
p sent at least two formal requests have been made to JSEL by
s c seeklng legal asslstance.
Th 5e 1nclude upcomlng proposals
on solld waste leglslatlon and the land use issue,
1n order :9
pr perly address these unportant lssues 1: 15 luvperatlve that
is 31 as well as technlcal expertlse be readlly avaliable.
To
da a, 1n keeplng Hlth past JSEL perfomance, we have not recelved
1n leatlon that conslderatlon of our requests has been initiated.
If we are to effectlvely 1nfluence and combat unacceptable leglsi
la 1Ve proposals, adequate legal asslstance 15 a must.
m h the exceptlon of the JSEL questlon, some progress has
be n made 1n unprovlng 1nternal MCA communlcatlons and organlzai
:1 mil difficulties whlch were hlghllghted 1n the prevlous
m stc reports. As per recommendatlons of the Ad Hoc Commlttee
on Envlronmental Affairs, two meetlngs have been held between
an 1ronmental commlttee chalmen and Varlous MCA staff to dlscuss
M admlnlstratlve procedures and methods by whlch MCA can act
1n 3 more unified and tlmely fashlon.
A5 a result of these
me tlngs several measures have been recommended to foster
1 rovement.
One of these provldes for Government Relatlons
De rtment input 1nto envlronmental commlttee meetlngs on a
con 1nu1ng basls.
A m mber of the Government Relatlons staff
has been asslgned to work mm stc 1n liaison capaclty.
Th1
1n ddltlon m the conslstent and competent efforts of our
cur ent Staff Secretary should be beneflclal m stc actlvltles.
To nsure that a contlnulng dlalogue 15 malntalned among
all facets of MCA envlronmental affalrs, I recommend that a
mes mg of envlronmental commlttee members and approprlate MCA
Sta 5 be held annually to provlde a forum for exchange and
coo dlnatlon of 1nfomatlon from all relevant sources, revlew
of CA admlnlstratlon procedures and resolutlon of lssues
1m! lvlng more than one of the envlronmental commlttees.
In oncluslon. stc 15 concerned mm the ultlmate dlsposal
of otentlally hazardous wastes.
of 11 the areas of envlroni
men 51 control, ultlmate dlsposal most readlly reflects the need
for a total envlronmental control approach. We may see 51g,
ms cant successes 1n air and water pollutlon abatement processes.
But what has the CPI really accompllshed 15 these successes are ~
neg ted because we are unable to dlspose of the abatement process
res dues or other potentlally hazardous wastes 1n 3 technlcally
and economlcally feaslble manner? We belleve that, 15 the legal,
gov rnmental and technlcal expertlse whlch should be avaliable
to 5 through MCA ausplces can be comblned 1nto tlmely actlon,
we eed not be the weak llnk 1n the chaln of total envlronmental
con rol.
Den 1: P. Brldge, Chalman
cm 035921
Exhlblt E
REPORT BY THE DIRECTOR OF GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
WILLIAM M
sTov‘ER
MAY 11, 1975
SENATE COMMITTEE WORKING 0N TAX LEGISLATION
The Senate Flnance Commlttee began markup of tax reform/tax
reductlon leglslatlon on Aprll 27 and 1: expected to report some
type of tax measure by mldiJune. Although 1: 15 not clear just
what the scope of the Commlttee's actlon Will be, 1: 15 entlrely '
posslble that thelr mu Hill 51mply extend tax reductlon pro*
Visions whlch explre on June 30, thus delaylng actlon on a tax
recom package untll later 1n the year. Senator Russell Long,
Chalman of the Flnance Conxnlttee, has 1nd1cated that such a
course 15 a dlstlnct posslblllty.
Durlng the past two weeks of markup sesslons the Senate
commlttee dealt prlmarlly mm tax shelters of llttle threat
1nterest to the chemlcal 1ndustry.
1: 15 significant to note,
however. that most declslons could be characterlzed as easlng
off on llmltatlons or restrlctlons 1ncluded 1n the Bonsaipassed
tax recom blll 13.11. 105127. Many observers are concludlng
therefore that when the Conmlctee takes up capltal formatlon
and forelgn 1ncome provlslons, 1:5 actlons Will be generally
more favorable to 1ndustry than chat of the House.
However. there 15 5:111 danger ahead. Whenever a tax mu
comes up for Senate floor actlon W be 1: a Simple extenslon of
expiring tax reductlon provlslons or a comprehenslve tax reform/
tax reductlon package W Senator Kennedy and several other reformlnded Senators are expected to 1ntroduce a number of antlibuslness
amendments. These are llkely m 1nclude proposals to repeal dE*
ferral of taxatlon of 1ncome of forelgn subsldlarles, restrlct
the use of the forelgn tax credlt, ellmlnate ursc entlrely, repeal
the Asset Depreclatlon Range (AER) System, and repeal the perceni
tags depletlon allowance for hard mlnerals.
cm 035997
The fate of these extreme amendments will depend on the
ability of the busmess communlty to convlnce a majorlty of
Senators of the damaglng unpact of the proposals on v. s.
busmess and the general economy.
Th1: was emphaslzed yesterday by v. 5. Senator Herman E.
Talmadge of Georgla, secondiranklng Democrat on the Senate
Flnance Commlttee.
In addresslng MCA'S CHEMICAL mum he urged
company offlclals m communlcate thelr Vlews on tax changes to
all Senators. and especlally to those on the Flnance Commlttee.
In order to stlmulate savlngs and capltal 1nvestment, Senator
Talmadge 1nd1cated that he favored proposals recommended by the
Admlnlstratlon and supported by MCA to make the 107. 1nvestment
tax credlt permanent, to reduce the corporate tax rate, ellmlnate
double taxatlon of corporate proflts and m modlfy the present
method of taxlng capltal galns. He fully supports retentlon of
the Forelgn Tax Credit and ms: and flrmly opposes any changes
that would materlally alter and burden the competltlve posltlon
of our companles operatlng abroad.
1: 15 his opinion that many
Members of the Flnance Commlttee shared his Vlews on these matters.
Varlous busmess organlzatlons are urging 1ndustry spokesmen
to contact all Senators mm whom they have constltuent relatlons
to make known thelr Vlews on these lssues. We certalnly support
thls llne of actlon. and belleve that such contacts should be
made before June 15.
CLEAN AIR AMENDMENTS HIT SNAG m SENATE
The Publlc Works Commlttees of both the House and Senate have
reported mus 1n what 15 the flrst attempt at comprehenslve re*
Vlslon of the Clean Alr Act of 1970 (PL 9175047.
An emotlonal struggle 15 under way over provlslons contalned
1n both mus 1ntended to protect clean alr agalnst "slgnlflcant
deterloratlon".
Both mus establlsh certaln "mandatory" Class I
areas where only small amounts of addltlonal pollutlon would be
allowed. The Commlttees say thelr nonideterloratlon proposals
would give states more control over the classlflcatlon process
than do the EPA'S present regulatlons.
Industry Vlews thls approach
as thlnly dlsgulsed Federal landiuse control.
cm 035999
3
In the Senate, there are Signs that support 15 growlng for an
amendment proposed by Senator Frank Moss u: *Utah),
The Democratlc
leadershlp has recently postponed untll early June the floor dE*
hate on Senator Muskle's b111, s
3219.
The M055 amendment would
defer the new nondeterloratlon restrlctlons for one year. Durlng
that perlod, a Natlonal Commlsslon on Alr Quallty, establlshed 1n
the Senate b111, studles the economlc and energy unpacts of the
proposal and conslders whether the government has enough technlcal
1nfomatlon m unplement 1:
By late Aprll, Senator Moss had gathered 12 co*sponsors 751x Republlcans and 51x Democrats. The hasty declslon to postpone
floor actlon 15 bemg 1ntezpreted as an 1nd1catlon that his pro*
posal now has the backlng m be adopted, and that opponents need
more time to solldlfy thelr opposltlon, MCA 1: therefore coni
tlnulng to work to bulld support for the Moss amendment. We are
urglng that member companles communlcate mm Senators on thls
subject as soon as posslble,
The House Interstate
pected to ﬁlls the report
the next few days, There
the House mlght awalt the
and Forelgn Commerce Commlttee 15 ex*
on 1:: Alr Quallty Amendments mu Within
now appears to be some possibility that
outcome of Senate actlon before proceedlng.
THE SOLID WASTE UTILIZATION ACT 77 WILL IT PASS7
The Senate Publlc Works Commlttee has scheduled markup on
proposed solld waste utlllzatlon leglslatlon for May 12 and 13.
Last July, Commlttee Chalrman Senator Jennlngs Randolph mrwnla.)
1ntroduced s, 2150, resultlng from extenslve hearlngs held durlng
1975.
Last Monday, May 10, the Commlttee staff lssued a new
worklng prlnt of the b111, whlch will now become the basls for
the markup.
The Hons“ Interstate and Forelgn Commerce Subcomlttee on
Transportatlon and Commerce lssued a draft solld waste mu last
December whlch was conslderably more comprehenslve than the or1g*
1nal Senate mu. We now understand that the Subcommlttee has
abandoned the flrst draft because of adverse reactlons. and that
another draft will emerge 1n mldimay whlch Will be less contra?
Verslal and more llkely to attract Hide support. The Subcommlttee
expects to hold hearlngs followlng lssuance of the new draft mu.
cm 035999
Last summer we submltted our own markediup Verslon of s. 2150
to the Senate Publlc Works Commlttee. We dld the same mm the
House Transportatlon and Commerce Subcommlttee December draft.
In related developments, 3 House Government Dperatlons Sub?
commlttee has conducted overslght hearlngs on solld waste, and
a House Sclence and Technology Subcommlttee has held hearlngs on
several research and development mus related to solld waste and
resource recovery lssues.
Overslght recommendatlons and 1m:
leglslatlve proposals will be glven conslderatlon and posslble
1ncozporatlon by the Subcomlttee on Transportatlon and Commerce
1n 1:: writing of the major House solld waste mu.
Judglng from the events dlscussed above, and the general coni
sensus on Capltol 3111, there appears to be a good posslblllty of
new solld waste leglslatlon thls year.
OSHA ownsmm HEARINGS
Hearlngs on worker exposure to toxlc materlals are scheduled
1n the House Government Operatlons Manpower Subcomnlttee thls
Tuesday and Wednesday, May 11 and 12, and contlnulng May 19.
The Subcommlttee plans to 1nvest1gate the adequacy of OSHA
health standards. whether the procurement systems of GSA and non
1nclude screenlng for toxlc substances and subsequent worker notk
flcatlon, and whether dangerous chemlcals 1n the workplace may be
more wldespread than generally recognlzed.
Wltnesses scheduled for Tuesday, May 11, 1nclude representai
tlves of the Natlonal Instltute for Dccupatlonal Safety and Health,
and DCAW (ml, Chemlcal and Atomlc Workers wmom. on May 12 the
Subcomnlttee will hear Dr. Morton Corn. Asslstant Secretary of Labor
for OSHA. Also appearlng Will be a spokesman for MCA, Mr. Emll E.
Chrlstofano, Chalrman of the MCA Dccupatlonal Health Commlttee.
Mr. Chrlstofano 15 an Industrlal Hyglenlst for Hercules Incozporated.
cm 035990
Exhlblt F
upon TO THE 13mm: 017 ummmns
mmmcmnms CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
man.
GARY A. SUNSHINE. CHAIRMAN
DRUG, AND cosMETIc CHEMICALS COMMITTEE
MAY 11.
1975
1: 15 a pleasure to have the opportunlty to report to you
on the actlvltles of the FDCC Commlttee and to share mm you
thoughts that have grown out of my assoclatlon mm the work of
the Commlttee durlng the past year.
As you know, the objectlves and the functlon of the FDCC
Commlttee are as follows:
"To advlse thp Board of Dlrectors concernlng
chemlcals used 1n foods, drugs, and cosmetlcs, and 1n
accord mm Assoclatlon pollcles and procedures,
develop posltlons on leglslatlon and regulatlons affect?
mg such chemlcals, formulate prlnclples and encourage
technlcal development pertlnent m thelr use and
cooperate Hlth other organlzatlons havlng parallel
1nterests
Conslderlng the rapid rate of developments 1n the past few
years, these responslbllltles represent no small task.
The actlvltles
of the Commlttee durlng the past year have been dlrected largely
toward consolldatlng and unplementlng organlzatlonal 1mprovements
1n1tlated durlng the precedlng year.
The organlzatlonal structure
that has been establlshed conslsts essentlally of a leglslatlve and
regulatory subcommlttee, a sclentlflc subcommlttee, and a communi
leatlons subcommlttEE, whlch are deslgned to closely follow develop*
ments 1n thelr respectlve areas.
The subcommlttees. through thelr
respectlve chalmen, and the steerlng subcommlttee, functlon by
developmg and referrlng wellideveloped reports and proposals to
the full Commlttee for revlew and actlon.
Th1: structural concept
takes advantage of the avaliable manpower by establlshlng a welldeflned dlvlslon of the work areas; ellmlnatlng repetltlous meetlngs,
and concentratlng on developmg concrete proposals for the basls
of Commlttee actlon.
Task force unlts mm speclflc areas of asslgni
men: Within these broad llnes of dlvlslon have also been used to
advantage.
CMA 035991
Durlng the past year, for example, the Commlttee prepared
and submltted extenslve comments on the FDA proposed Admlnlstratlve
Practlces and Procedures regulatlons,
of partlcular unportance to
MCA was the FDA posltlon stated 1n Sectlon 2.23 (by of these proposed
regulatlons. that any representatlon made by a trade assoclatlon
"shall be on behalf of 1:: members and shall constltute a represeni
tatlon on behalf of each member of the trade assoclatlon. except
those speclflcally excluded by name 1n any such submlsslon."
The
obstacles to equltable admlnlstratlon of justlce under the law
that could be evoked by such a provlslon are so numerous as to preclude
detalled reference 1n thls report.
Such objectlons have been fully
documented 1n our submlsslon to FDA.
Other features of the proposed
regulatlons to whlch we have submltted substantlal comments have
1ncluded a proposed llmltatlon on the opportunlty to present oral
testlmony and to cross*exam1ne wltnesses durlng hearlngs, and the
establlshment of crlterla whlch the FDA asserted constltuted a
proper basls on whlch to deny a petition or rlght to a hearlng.
These provlslons and others of Varylng degrees of unportance and
unpact are not merely a codlflcatlon of exlstlng FDA procedures, but
1n many respects, represent a baslc change 1n practlces that restrlct'
the rlghts of 1nd1v1duals subject to the agency's jurlsdlctlon m
obtaln conslderatlon and revlew.
Another leglslatlve development of unportance whlch 15 now
under revlew by the leglslatlve and regulatory subcommlttee 15 the
Kennedy Food Survelllance 13111 5.541.
Although orlglnally heralded
as applylng prlmarlly to food manufacturlng and processlng establlshi
ments. thls proposed leglslatlon has unpllcatlons extendlng beyond
these areas.
Under the manufacturlng sectlons, survelllance features
are 1ncluded relatlng to the establlshment of safety assurance pro*
cedures Hlthln plants, product codlng, record keeplng, and 1n5pectlons.
In addltlon the 13111 contalns provlslons for requlrlng reglstratlon
of food establlshments.
However. 1n a broader context, the 13111
imposes obllgatlons on food processors to 1mmedlately notlfy the
1n5t1tutlon of a recall as well as the possibility that processed
foods "may be adulterated."
Cltlzens clvll actlons also are authorrlzed under the 13111.
Addltlonally, the 13111 contalns extenslve
new requlrements pertaining to the label identification of all
lngredlents.
1n addltlon to these actlvltles. the Commlttee has also
monltored the mar Carclnogenlc Bloassay program, the FCC and FAD/WHD
monographs for food chemlcals, and the FDA revlew of GRAS substances.
CMA 035992
These actlvltles have been carrled out prlmarlly under the program
of the sclentlflc subcomlttee together mm a number of other
projects relatlng to technlcal developments 1n the area of food,
drug, and cosmetlc chemlcals,
The development of proposed Good
Manufacturlng Practlces Guldellnes for bulk drugs and food chemlcals
15 presently under study by thls subcomlttee.
In addltlon. technlcal
liaison 15 carrled out mm the actlvltles of PMA, as they relate
to bulk drugs and Hlth GMA, as they relate to food chemlcals.
A project presently actlve Hlthln the communlcatlons sub?
commlttee 15 the development of a proposal for the fomatlon of a
chemlcal 1ndustry 1nformatlon center.
Although the detalls of the
organlzatlon and operatlon of such a center and Varlous conslderatlons
relatlng to 1:5 establlshment are not yet deflned 1n concrete terms,
1: 15 belleved that such a center could help to unprove the publlc's
understandlng of questlons and controversles that confront our
1ndustry.
Whlle the above descrlbe brlefly the broad spectrum of actlxk,
tles that have been carrled forward durlng the past year, a summary
of the Commlttee's actlvltles would not be complete wlthout an
approprlate evaluatlon of thls work as 1: relates to the objectlves of the Commltt '5 responslbllltles to MCA.
Such objectlves clearly
must be understood 1n the llght of the leglslatlve and regulatory
cllmate that exlsts today.
Seen 1n thls perspectlve, one can only
feel a keen sense of 1nadequacy of constantly strlvlng m barely
keep up Hlth developments and the frustratlon of bemg able only to
superflclally react to the Varlous problems that contlnue to arlse.
Desplte the dlllgent efforts of restructurlng the FDCC
CommlttEE. 1: 15 belleved that a more fundamental reevaluatlon
the MCA actlvlty 1n thls area should be undertaken.
courSE, a Varlety of ways 1n whlch response to the greater rden
1n thls area of our actlvltles can be made.
I would not propose as
part of thls brlef report to attempt to deflne 1n det 1 any partly
ular solutlon.
1: 15 approprlate, however, to recognlze that the
tune may have arrlved whep the means whlch have erved us well 1n
the past are no longer adequate to serve 1ndu rles' needs 1n the
area of food. drug, and cosmetlc chemlcals.
MCA has always prlded 1tself on the fact at commlttee leader?
Ship and most of the worklng 1nput com from the member companles.
I suggest that thls pollcy may no lo er be approprlate 1n areas of
CMA 035993
511
prollferatlng Leglslatlon and gulatlon, such as food, drug and
cosmetlc law.
These regulatlons are tan; ed at many areas,
frequently beyond the 5:: e of 1nterest of any smgle member company.
Therefore. I urge thls card to appoint a commlttee to study the
issue of from where ould the leadershlp of any partlcular commlttee
come.
Should 1: be m the MCA staff, or should 1: contlnue to
come from the mber companles.
The conclusl may not be the same
for all Go lttees.
Neverthe 55, x trunk thls Situation should
be glv a fresh look.
I
c
A 035994
Exhlblt G
REPORT TO T-E BOARD 017 ummmns
MANUFACTURI'G CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
GEORGE A. CWFFENBERG, CHAIRMAN
TRANSPORTAT 0N AND ursmmmmu commm
MAY 11, 197.
In ray 1n1t 51 report for the Transportatlon and Dlstrlbutlon Commlttee
on Aprll a .5 last year, I restrlcted my comments to two ltems of major 51g,
nlflcance h-Vlng future 1mpact on the chemlcal 1ndustry. A more detalled
report on t e Commlttee's actlvltles was appended to my remarks. Today my
oral report will focus on three toplcs and I refer you to the ﬁlled report
for the bal.nce.
The chemlca 1ndustry owns or operates approxlmately 57,000 tank cars
and 15 compnsated by the rallroads through a mlleage allowance of from 11.071
to 23.914 pr loaded car mlle dependlng on the value of the car. The r51]:
roads pay a allowance to suppllers of prlvate r511 cars 1n that freight rates
take 1nto c-nslderatlon a cost to the rallroads of supplylng cars. Prlor to
1954, the alowance per mlle was a onsilevel allowance. A car owner or operai
tor was pal the same rate per mlle 1rrespect1ve of whether a car had a value
The chemlcal 1ndustry, havlng the newer and hlgher Valued cars, was of
the opinion that the compensatlon paid by the rallroads should recognlze the
dlfference .5 1nvestment 1n the cars and pay a hlgher allowance to the more
Valuable (:55 than paid to cars of lower Value. After long negotlatlons, a
:rklevel sstem of compensatlon was establlshed 1n November 1954. However,
because of lsagreement among the rallroads as to how the system was to w rk,
the matter as contested before the Interstate Commerce Commlsslon 11cm Hlth
the car supllers on one slde and the rallroads on the other.
Commencing 1n 1954 through May of thls year, three major car compensai
tlon cases ave been adjudlcated before the me. In 1971, after 3 fav rable
ma declsl- m an MCA complalnt, the three*level system of compensatlon e57
tabllshed 1 1954 was changed to a snrlevel system. However, the rates of
compensatl- m be paid by the rallroads were frozen to car Values establlshed
1n 1959. T - flnal Cass, ma Docket 35537 1n5t1tuted by MCA over four years
ago, 15 ab- t m be dlscontlnued as a result of an interim agreement negotlai
ted betwee the lltlgants. The negotlatlons followed a favorable declslon by
Dlvlslon 2 for my MCA'S complalnt was supported by. the Amerlcan Petroleum ~
Instltute, the Corn Reflners Assoclatlon. the Instltute of Shortenlng and
Edlble ml, the major tank car leaslng companles and Allled Chemlcal Corp r37
tlon.
The 1nter1 agreement accompllshes the followlng:
m The ﬂu sage rate for all 51x levels of compensatlon was
to be Incr.ased on thlrty days' notlce by 2271/21. Th1:
Increase b.came effectlve May 1, 1975. Tank car Compeni
satlon had not been 1ncreased Since January 1, 1971. 1:
15 estlmat.d that the 1ncrease annuallzed will return to
the tank c.r perators an addltlonal 540 million. The
chemlcal I dustry's share 15 estlmated at $20 million.
cm 035995
51n<.e 195, the rallroads only adjusted tank car Compeni
satlon upw.rd afcer adjudlcatlon of a complalnt before
the Ice. T e agreement provldes chat tank car compensai
tlon Hill a adjusted 1n relatlon m and at the time the
rallroads .djust the compensatlon paid one another for
use of sac other's cars. The rallroads have 1ncreased
the compen-atlon paid to each ocher four tunes, aggregati
mg 45%, s nae the last tune tank car compensatlon was
1ncreased. We expecc the new rates of compensatlon,
effectlve ay 1, Hill agaln be 1ncreased 1n the flrst
quarter of 1977 when the rallroads 1ncrease car compensai
tlon to ash other.
New tank c.rs enterlng the r311 fleet, frozen at 1959
Valuatlons for the purpose of compensatlon, will now
enter the last at thelr falr market Value. For example,
a car Valud 1n 1975 dollars at $27,000 will call for a
mlleage rae of 23.914 per loaded mlle whereas prior to
thls agree ant, such cars would have been adjusted by a
formula to a value of $19,500 and compensated at a rate
of 21.394. Exlstlng cars will be raievaluated and 15 the
falr marks value of the car places 1: 1n 3 hlgher mlle*
age group, the car will be reasslgned to the hlgher group.
Tank car 0 her: and operators will support the establlshi
men: of an equallzatlon rule whereby, the rallroads Will
be compens.ted for excess empty mlles when empty mlles
exceed loaed mlles by more than 105A.
The ma Hll issue an order commencmg a rule maklng
proceedlng for the purpose of establlshlng rules and
methods to detemlnlng sank car compensatlon 1n the
future. Wh-n completed, the me Will lssue another ori
der cancelng the interim agreement and prescrlblng the
basls on w 1ch tank car compensatlon 15 to be paid and
the mecha sms for 1:: unplementatlon. Rule maklng may
take as 1. g as three years to complete.
In summar , we not only see the llght at the end of the tunnel, but we
can see t - end of the tunnel. Durlng Che next three years, complex and
dlfflcult egotlatlng Will be carrled out Hlth the rallroads under me superi
Vlslon. mu v5 objectlve Will be to do 1:: best to assure that the rules
flnally p -scr1bed Hill provlde equltable compensatlon for those who supply
tank cars.
last repo dealt at length mm Publlc Law 92,500, the Federal Water
Pollutlon Control Ash, and 1n partlcular, the 1972 amendments coverlng spllls
of hazard-us pollutlng substances and the clvll penaltles provlded for such
spllls 1n sectlon 311. I advlsed that an ad hoc 1nter71ndustry commlttee,
1nclud1ng ‘ CA, was seeklng leglslatlve rellef from the punitive provlslons of
thls seat on. 3.x. 9550 was 1ntroduced September 11, 1975 to amend several
sectlons c the law and sectlon 12 of the b111, whlle not totally m the 11k,
mg of th ad hoc commlttEE, would have been a Vast unprovement from the
exlstlng aw. MCA testlfled 1n support of the mm mm caveats as to the
am 03599.
meanlng 1 tended by certaln language 1n the mu. MCA offered to work mm
the Envlrnmental Protectlon Agency 13pm on the development of guldellnes to
carry out the 1ntent of she dublous language along the llnes of MCA'S testy
mony. EPA Admlnlstrator, Russell Traln, testlfled 1n support of 3.x. 9550,
1nclud1ng support of sectlon 12. The deslred revlslons 1n the law, as eni
compassed 1n sectlon 12, were recommended by the House Publlc Works Subcomi
mlttee ha dllng the mu.
However. n markiup before the full House Commlttee on Publlc Works
and Trans.ortatlon. the penalty language 1n sectlon 12 underwent a Significant
and unforunate must. The mu provlded for a maxlmum penalty of $50,000.
In markiu” to placate certaln Commlttee members who were seeklng to preserve
the maxlm penalty of $5,000,000 when from a Vessel and $500,000 when from a
shoreﬁaasd faclllty, as provlded 1n the 1972 amendments, the Commlttee ap*
proved a brasitler approach to penaltles. The amendment, 1n effect provldes
a maxlmum penalty of 550,000 for a flrst spill, a maxlmum of $100,000 for a
second 5p 11, and a maxlmum of $500,000 for spllls 1n excess of two durlng a
threeﬁlea perlod. The markiup made no change 1n the language concernlng
spllls 1n olvlng wlllful negllgence or wlllful mlsconduct.
3.x. 9550 1: expected to' obtaln a rule from the Rules Commlttee for con*
slderatlo by the House some time thls month, tt 1: the best judgment of
those who are famlllar Hlth leglslatlve procedures that the markiup commlttee
has made mm a "Chrlstmas Tree" of the b111, chat 1: stands a Very good
chance of belng Voted down by the House. If thls does not occur, because
5. 2710, he Senate's companlon mu 1: so dlfferent than 3.x. 9550, an ac,
fort Will be made to return the penalty language to 1:5 orlglnal form durlng
the House and Senate conference. The fallback posltlon Will be to ellmlnate
sectlon 1 1n 1:: entlrety.
The transortatlon of hazardous materlals contlnues to recelve adverse
publlclty far out of proportlon m the safety 1:: transportatlon record dE*
serves. T e Department of Transportatlon mom, through 1:: Dlrector of the
Offlce of Hazardous Materlals when testlfylng on the Transportatlon Safety
Act of 19 4, estlmated that there are over two bllllon tons of hazsrdous
materlals shipped annually Hlth as many as 250,000 shlpments tendered dally.
Major ac dents 1nvolv1ng hazardous materlals have been relatlvely few when
conslderl g the exposure, but each one ralses new crles for 1ncreased regulai
tlon.
Since 1959, the Department of Transportatlon has been attemptlng to
develop . new hazard 1nformatlon system 1ntegrat1ng Vehlcle placards and
Shipping papers mm the ability for a qulck emergency response. The DDT'S
most rec-nt effort 1: an advance notlce of rule maklng 1dent1£1ed Hazardous
Materlal Docket No. 125. The XT requested that responses to the docket
evaluate nlne hazard 1nformatlon systems proposed by respondents 1n 3 past
docket aalnst nine crlterla that a hazard Infomatlon system should meet.
MCA'S reponse was a modlflcatlon of 1:: prior proposal and 1: 15 belleved
more adeuately meets the nlne crlterla than any of the other systems. 1:
1ntegrat-s the Vehlcle placards, the shlpplng papers, an lnmedlate ability
to respo d, and CHEKTREC. The system 15 not only practlcal for unplementai
tlon dom-stlcally 1nclud1ng lntemodal transportatlon, but 15 readlly adapt?
able for 1nternatlonal shlpments. We belleve the MCA response 15 the lead?
mg sand date to be adopted by the DOT as a basls for a rule maklng proceed?
mg.
cm 0359";
M
7 4 The ommlttee has a roster of thlrtyislx members and 15 organlzed
around a ght standlng subcommlttees mm the followlng areas of responsmllltyﬁhazamous materlals, hlghway carrlers, leglslatlon, marlne,
physlcal dlstrlbutlon, r311 carrlers, transportatlon envlronmental regulai
tlons am a steerlng subcomlttee. The steerlng subcommlttee 15 comprlsed
of the 0 her subcommlttee chalmen and the commlttee offlcers.
Importan matters currently 1nvolv1ng the Transportatlon and mstmbm
tlon Co u lttee are:
I
Hazardou Materlals Regulatlons. The hazard 1nformatlon (Hm system
proposed 1n HMR3 Docket No. 103; Notlce 73710, 1nvolved a twoidlglt
number f-r use on the Vehlcle placard and Shipping paper as a key to
a respone manual glvlng guldellnes for an emergency response 1n the
event of a Spill, leak or flre. DDT has dlscontlnued HMrlD3 mm
regard :- the HI numbers. Slmultaneously mm the dlscontlnuance of
part of M7103, DDT 1n5t1tuted amina, and advance notlce of rule
maklng 1 Vltlng responses to evaluate nine HI systems recelved 1n
response to HMrlm. MCA ﬁlled a tlmely response to wins on
March 25, 1975. The revlsed MCA HI system ﬁlled 15 belleved to meet
more cl- ely the nine crlterla agalnst whlch each HI system 15 to be
evaluat- than any other system.
1
Hazardo s Materlals Docket 127...Exemptlon Procedures. The Trans*
portatl-n Safety Act of 1974 authorlzed the Secretary of Transp ritatlon to grant exemptlons from the Hazardous Materlals Regulatlons'
slmllar to those formerly granted by DOT under the tltle of "Spy
c131 Pe 1:5." The rules and procedures for obtalnlng exemptlons
became ffectlve October 15 on concluslon of mam.
I
Prlor t January 4, 1975, authorlty for the regulatlon of hazardous
materla s was Vested 1n each modal admlnlstrator (rail, hlghway,
water a d 311‘7- Under the new Act, the Secretary has created the
Materla s Transportatlon Bureau 1mm Hlth responslblllty for the
operatlmnal functlons of regulatlons, exemptlons and compllance
Hlth th- Hazardous Materlals Regulatlons. The M113 replaces the
Hazardos Materlals Regulatlons Board (HMRB) whlch fomerly c ordlnated such matters.
R311 (13 rlers. Since Aprll 1975, numerous freight rate docket:
substanlally escalatlng charges for swltchlng loaded and empty cars
appears mm llttle or no justlflcatlon. MCA challenged these dock?
at“. am, 1n all but Isolated Situations, the docket: were later
wlthdra n by the carrlers.
DDT 15: ed Emergency Order No. 5 requlrlng DDT Speclflcatlons 112A
and 114, on unlnsulated pressure tank cars contalnlng flammable
gases, 0 be shoved to rest, prohibiting humplng or rolllng swltchi
as, as = result of rallroad accldents In whlch such cars ruptured.
Through thelr freight rate dockets, the rallroads proposed an arbk
trary c arge of from $100 m 5300 per car per shlpment for extra
handlln. MCA challenged thls arbltrary actlon and the carrlers
later w thdrew the proposal.
cm 035999
5
III.
nghwa .
ma Doket MC732155 (Sub.47 was an 1nvest1gatlon under?
taken .fter petition by the Natlonal Tank Truck Carrlers, Inc. to
1dent1y, segregate and accumulate cost for the cleanlng of cargo
tanks.
ma acountlng requlrements dld not make provlslon for such
segreg.tlon. MCA ﬁlled statements supportlng the segregatlon and
1dent11catlon of chose costs. The proceedlng has been successfully
conclued.
Natlon.l Classlflcatlon Board Docket 744. subject 40, proposed the
arbltr.ry reclasslflcatlon of Class A and B polsons to 2mm tunes
flrst lass for LTL shlpments and 100 tunes flrst class for truckload shlpments regardless of the classlflcatlon ratlng for a pari
tlcula product. Challenged, thls arbltrary actlon by the Natlonal
(115551 leatlon Board has been placed 1n suspenslon by the Board and
15 bel eved dead.
The Feeral Government, as an offset to the truckers because of the
natlon.l maxlmum speed 11mm of 55 mlles per hour, authorlsed an
1ncreae 1n the maxlmum welght for trucks on the Defense and Interi
state 1ghway System from a gross weight of 73,290 m 90,000 pounds.
In or-r for Vehlcles to leave the Interstate System to pick up and
dellve frelght, state Height 11mm: must be 1ncreased allowlng the
hlghe gross welght. The commlttee has recommended support for
state .ctlons raising state welghts m the 1nterstate level.
Phy51.l Dlstrlbutlon. At a onsiday educatlonal semlnar precedlng
the M. Transportatlon and Dlstrlbutlon Commlttee meetlng, MCA
membe companles descrlbed the Interface of transportatlon 1nformai
tlon 1th order entry and data base concepts. Several systems for
compu-erlzatlon of freight rates and routes were descrlbed.
Durln- the October meetlng, representatlves of the Natlonal Tank
Truck Carrlers, Inc. dlscussed servlce and economlc problems
faced by the tank truck carrler 1ndustry. Arrangements are belng
made 0 contlnue such dlalogues mm other major transportatlon
servles at future meetlngs.
Marln. The development of regulatlons m unplement the clvll
penal 1a: of sectlon 311 of P.L. 927500, the Federal Water Pol?
lutlo Control ACt,has been monltored. Actlon seeklng leglslai
tlve ellef from the punitive penaltles of sectlon 311 has not
been uccessful so far.
Envlr-nmental Regulatlons. The State of 1111mm, through 1::
Poll lon Control Board. has been conslderlng, for same tlme,
prop-sed toxlc substances regulatlons. Transportatlon, 1n and
thro gh the state, would have been serlously affected by the
prop-sed regulatlons. MCA partlclpated 1n hearlngs opposlng
1ncl slon of transportatlon 1n the regulatlons of the EPA.
The ates: draft of the proposed regulatlons ellmlnates appllcai
tlon m transportatlon equlpment.
cm 135999
a
MCA nd the Natlonal Tank Truck Carrlers. Inc. have scheduled a
Semi 3r on " Tank Truck Waste Water Effluentsﬁnegulauons and
Dlsp-sltlon" on June 10711, 1975 at the Unlverslty of Wlsconsln
1n M.dlson. Although the EPA currently has asslgned a low
prlo 1ty to waste water treatment dlscharged from transports?
tlo equlpment, an understandlng of the problems 15 belng
sou t through such meetlng.
v11.
Leg slatlve.
197 was the year for transportatlon leglslatlon.
In .eptember, MIA testlfled on several mus bearlng Varlous
:1: es affectlng the r311 1ndustry 13.11. 9302, s. 1975 and
s. 7137. The composlte of leglslatlon eventually became
s. neﬁwne Rallroad Revltallzatlon and Regulatory Refom
Ac of 1975." Several of the polnts made by MCA were adopted
1n the leglslatlon.
Th Admlnlstratlon presently has before the Congress, a major
re arm of the common and contract carrler regulatory system.
Th leglslatlon 15 termed the "Truck Regulatory Reform Act."
Th T&D Conmlttee has adopted posltlons Hlth regard to pnncy
p -s Incorporated 1n the mu. To date, hearlngs have not been
sheduled. MeanwhllE, meetlngs Hlth framers of the mu 1n the
Dpartment of Transportatlon have provlded 1n51ght as to the
.3515 for the proposal and allowed explanatlon of chemlcal
ndustry reactlon.
MA 037nm
Exhlblt a
fry
REPORT TO THE 13mm: 017 ummmns
MANUFACTURING CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
BY
R. E. PHILLIPS, CHAIRMAN
TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT COMMITTEE
May 11, 1975
Th1: report 15 on behalf of the MCA Transportatlon Equlpment Commlttee.
1
The TEC needs no 1ntroductlon but a revlew of 1:: Charter 15 useful. The Commlttee 15
comprlsed of 25 representatlves of member companles and handles technlcal and technlcally
related problems havlng to do mm the transportatlon of chemlcals by tank car, tank truck,
portable and 1ntemodal tank. barge and bulk Ship. To accompllsh thls task, three
standlng subcommlttees deal 1n the separata areas of r311, truck/portable tank, 31:: marlne.
The chalrmen of these groups are E. G. Hansen (duPonty, v. a. Goodwln (Exxon) and
M. M. Anderson mmon CarbldE7 respectlvely. Our Vlce chalrman 15 J. R. Hopklns mom.
We operate under rules of practlce as by the MCA board approved.
To enhance our technlcal actlvlt 155, we enjoy advlsory support from 1nd1v1dual tank car
englneers, and we have an assoclate member from the Bureau of Exploslves. The ma
chalrman represents the MCA as a member of the AAR' Tank Car Commlttee. We have
a Volce on the Amerlcan Natlonal Standards Instltute commlttee deallng Hlth 1ntemodal
contalners and we have 1nformal liaison mm the Natlonal Tank Truck Carrlers and
the Truck Traller Manufacturers Assoclatlon. Several of our Marlne Subcommltte members
are actlve on the Coast Guard's Chemlcal Transportatlon Industry Advlsory Commltte .
Our most famous alumnus 15 J. T. Curtls, Jr. fomerly of v. 5. Steel and now Dlrector of the
Materlals Transportatlon Bureau of DDT.
nghllghts of Current Actlvltles
u. M. Long's report of Commlttee actlvltes 1n May, last year, 5:111 applies 1n great measure.
We contlnue to devote Significant actlvlty to these ltems:
1
1. Tank car safety rellef devlces. Proposals are bemg processed for suggested
rulemaklng concernlng safety rellef Valves for tank cars carrylng products
whlch should not be vented. Studles of safety Vent materlals are contlnulng.
2. We are followlng mm 1nterest the Varlous tank car research programs whlch will
foster such 1nnovatlons as manual Shleldlng, bottom outlet protectlon and
revlsed speclflcatlons for 1nsulated tank can.
1
cm 037001
3. The current... tank truck and portable tank 1nspectlon requlrements, (both domestlc
and 1nternatlonal7 have been tabulated for the flrst tune as a worklng document
for use 1n respondlng m antlclpated regulatory revlslons.
4. The success of our audlowlsual training am for praitrlp tank car 1nspectlon
has encouraged us to begln preparatlon of a slmllar program related to tank
trucks.
5. Our draft "Guldellnes for Preventlon and Control of Chemlcal Spllls 1n Bulk
R311 and nghway Transportatlon" 1: 1n the flnal revlew stage befor presentatlon
to the Assoclatlon for publlcatlon.
5. Several regulatory proposals 1n the marlne area contlnue to requlre our attentlon,
1nclud1ng talkeman regulatlons, barge fleetlng requlrements, and developments
on manned Vessel rulemaklng.
7. We are concerned mm the Envlronmental Protectlon Agency's hazardous
materlals spllls proposals and are contrlbutlng to the Assoclatlons' response.
3. DOT Docket am 112 was flnallzed last month. Th1: consolldatlon of the hazardous
materlals regulatlons adopted several of MCA'S recommendatlons. Certaln areas,
such as the classlflcatlon of polsons were put In abeyance and Hill requlre our
contlnued study.
Items for Future Conslderatlon
Many of our "current" actlvltles are "1n antlelpatlon" of future problems:
1. Recommend unloadlng hose requallflcatfon procedures are bemg developed.
2. We have actlvely partlclpated 1n the development of proposals for a hazard
1nformatlon system.
3. Posslble revocatlon of Vlsual inspection procedures for tank trucks 1: a matter on
whlch the Commlttee Is developlng a posltlon.
4. There 15 a possibility that the envlronmental effect of chemlcal spllls may be a
matter for addltlonal classlflcatlon of commodltles.
cm 037002
The n w Materlal" Tramp rtatlon Bureau has revlsed the procedures for btalnlng exemptlons
from the regulatlons. 1: 15 now necessary to provlde full Contalner and commodlty data and
experlence along mm justlflcatlon Vd safety analyses to obtaln exemptlons for haldllng
chemlcals or contalners not now 1ncluded 1n the regulatlons.
The Transportatlon Equlpment Commlttee Hill contlnue 1:5 efforts toward safety In the hcndllng
and Shipping of the 1ndustry's products, both by attentlon m the speclflc areas ennumerated and
to others as the need develops.
4
cm 037nm
mum: F
R BY THE DIRECTOR OF GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
WILL]: STDVER
SEPTEMBER 1 , 97a
cousmss NEARS MENT AMID GRowING ELECTION FEVER
Leaders of both the Ho and Senate contlnue to sun for
October 2 adjournment of t 4th Congress. Desplte the fact
that both houses appear on sche some observers are
skeptlcal Since Congress rately meet adllnes for endlng
1:: work.
Not only are the remalnlng days few 1n number, thoughts
of the November electlon are provlng 1ncreaslngly actlng
. to Members. A number of Congressmen have already gone a m
campalgn and attendance problems could cause dlfflculty for
party leaders 1n these closmg weeks as they attempt to complete
~ remalnlng leglslatlon.
The flnal days before adjournment are always a dlfflcult
and uncertaln perlod for Congress and for those who follow 1::
actlvltles closely.
Time pressures and dlstractlons lead to
hasty actlon 1n some cases and the leglslatlve process becomes
all the more unpredlctable.
Nonetheless, 1: 15 posslble to speak Hlth assurance on the
fate of several unportant mus whlch have recelved our attentlon
1n recent months:
7 the patent recom b111, earller passed 1n objectlonable
form by the Senate, will die 1n the House Judlclary
CommlttEE;
7 011 dlvestlture leglslatlon never really got off the
ground but 15 certaln to prove controverslal 1n 1977.
7 the mu provldlng for deregulatlon of natural gas 15
stalled.
cm 037039
2
on the other hand. passage appears llkely for the Alr
Quallty Act Amendments, and for a Toxlc Substances Control mu.
THE "PARENS mum" BILL IS STILL ALIVE
A major antktrus: reform mu contlnues to move through
the Congress.
The Senate last week passed a Very tough and
controverslal Verslon.
A5 a result. parllamentary maneuverlng
15 underway as opponents seek to block passage by the House.
The major provlslons of the leglslatlon are:
7 expanded 1nvest1gat1ve authorlty for the Department of
Justlce and the Federal Trade Commlsslon;
7 requlrement for praimerger notlflcatlon of Justlce and
FTC where companles n: certaln trlgger guldellnes, thus
glvlng the Government the opportunlty to block 1ntended
mergers;
7 the controverslal "parens patrlae" sectlon, allowlng
state attorneys general to brlng treblewiamages classactlon sluts agalnst busmesses on behalf of the state's
cltlzens.
WATER QUALITY AMENDMENTS WEARING CONFERENCE
House and Senate conferees will soon meet to detemlne the
fate of a mu amendlng the Federal Water Pollutlon Control Act
1n several Significant respects. Major polnt of contentlon Will
be the wordlng of the wetlands sectlon 7 that 15, how to control
pollutlon resultlng from dredge and £111 operatlons 1n wetlands,
lakes and streams.
Other provlslons:
7 constructlon grants for munlclpal sewage treatment plants;
7 fundlng for EPA 31:: 1n the form of loan guarantees for
cltles' shares of Federallyifunded sewage treatment projects;
7 modlflcatlon of deadllnes Within whlch publlc treatment
plants must meet requlrements.
cm 037039
r
The wetlands pollutlon controversy arlses as a result of
regulatlons wrltten by the Amy Corps of Englneers pursuant to
the orlglnal Federal Water Pollutlon Control Act of 1972 19275007.
A 1975 court rullng held that these regulatlons apply to all
waters of the v. s. and not just those deflned as navlgable
under the law.
Staff members of the House and Senate Publlc Works Commlttees
have been meetlng 1n an effort to 61nd a basls for compromlse.
Regardless of the outcome. the next Congress will be con*
ductlng an 1nidepth revlew of PL 927500 and the report of the
presldent's Commlsslon on Water Quallty. MCA expects to take
an actlve role 1n those dellberatlons and our preparatlons are
already underway.
ENACTMENT SEEMS LIKELY mu soLm WASTE LEGISLATION
The Senate calls 1: "solld waste utilization" whlle the
House refers to 1: as "resource conservatlon and recovery", but
whatever the hams, a new solld waste law appears to be 1n
prospect.
M
The Senate passed 5. 2150 last June 1n 3 generally acceptable
form:
1n recent months the House Interstate and Forelgn Commerce
Commlttee has been at work on several Verslons of 1:5 own.
Subcommlttee draft language was clrculated for comment and a
number of helpful changes 1ncozporated.
The Commlttee mu has
now been cleared for House floor conslderatlon next week.
1:
appears unllkely that the House/Senate conference will encounter
substantlal dlfflculty and enactment appears to be a good bet.
Industry appears favorably 1ncllned toward both mus.
The major provlslons:
7 mandatory Federal standards on hazardous waste, 1nclud1ng
1:5 generatlon, transport, storage and dlsposal? EPA may
delegate 1mplementatlon m the states;
7 EPA guldellnes for state solld waste management plans,
Hlth grants and technlcal am handled through a new
Offlce of Dlscarded Materlals;
7 substantlal EPA research and development programs almed
at smalliscale and lowitechnology systems, sludge
management, reduclng alr quallty problems from 1nc1neratlon,
and energy recovery;
cm 037040
4
7 study programs 1n eleven speclfled areas 1nclud1ng
plastlcs recovery, energy recovery, sludge reductlon,
and waste reductlon.
OUTLOOK FAVDRABLE mu MASSIVE TAX REFORM BILL
1: has taken two years, over a thousand pages of text, and
two weeks of 1ntenslve House/Senate conferences. but the masslve
tax reform mu 1: flnally near enactment.
1: must be consldered
the most Significant tax mu Since 1959 Since 1: unpacts the
taxatlon of every 1nd1v1dual and corporatlon 1n the Unlted
States.
The mu extends through next year, although 1n somewhat
dlfferent form, the anuqecessmn tax cuts Voted last year by
the Congress.
1: places hlgher taxes on upperibracket taxpayers
through 1ncreased minimum taxes and reductlon of "tax shelters".
1: alters treatment of estate and gift taxes, deductlons for the
use of prlvate homes 1n busmess, deductlons for Vacatlon homes,
and 1nd1v1dual retlrement accounts.
Especlally Significant 15 the fact that the mu ralses
approxlmately 51.5 mumn 1n revenue for the next flscal year.
Th1: was essentlally the target of the House mm and of both
the Senate and House Budget Commlttees.
The mm 15 therefore
regarded as somethlng of a Vlctory for House Ways and Means.
Commlttee Chalrman Al Ullman (DiDreJ: and for the new Congresslonal
budgetisettlng process 1tself.
To refresh your memory, the Tax Refom Act passed the House
1n December 1975 and 1n the Sprlng underwent hearlngs 1n the
Senate Flnance Commlttee for about two months. Mr. F. Perry
mlson testlfled on behalf of MCA, urglng adoptlon of provlslons
whlch would encourage capltal 1nvestment and opposlng changes 1n
tax provlslons related to forelgn operatlons of v. s. companles.
The Commlttee completed markiup of 1:5 mm 1n mldiJune and
the Senate floor debate began later that month. A bkpartlsan
Coalltlon of moderates, led by Senator Russell Long, held off
the efforts of "reformers" to add a Varlety of antlibuslness
amendments.
The Senate passed the measure 1n early August.
Last
week House and Senate conferees reached agreement on all pro*
Vlslons.
:'I
The conference compromlse contalns the followlng ltems of
1nterest to our 1ndustry:
cm 037041
I
5
canltal Formatlon and Corporate Tax Rates
The 1nvestment tax credlt 15 extended for 4 years
Corporate tax rates are set at 20% on the flrst
above $50,000.
These levels are extended through
1977.
Taxpayers who are now allowed a Biyear carryback
and a Siyear carryforward of net operatlng losses
will recelve an addltlonal two years to Hrlte off
thelr losses.
The minimum tax rate for corporatlons 15 1ncreased
The éimonth holdlng perlod for longitem capltal
galns 15 1ncreased m 9 months 1n 1977, and to one
year 1n 197a.
Forelgn Source Income
ursc beneflts are appllcable to that 1ncrement of
export gross recelpts whlch exceed 57% of base
perlod gross recelpts. The base perlod Will be
taxable years 1972 m 1975.
Illegal payments to forelgn offlclals may not be
deducted. do not reduce earnlngs and proflts, and
are deemed 1mmedlately repatrlated for tax purposes.
Companles complylng or cooperatlng Hlth 1nternatlonal
boycotts are denled the forelgn tax credlt, deferral
and ms: beneflts on that portlon of thelr 1ncome
related to the boycott.
The provlslon would not
apply to boycotts approved or agreed to by the v. s.
The earned 1ncome abroad excluslon 1: reduced to
The conferees agreed to remove energy tax provlslons from
the tax reform b111, preferrlng to handle thls area separately.
In a last mlnute change, they 1ncluded state tax recom provlslons.
cw 057042
Exmm: G
upon TD .om OF DIRECTORS
MANUFACTURING CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
Fletcher L. Byrom, Chalman
Economlc P-llcy Revlew commlttee
September 14,
1975
The Econo :1 Outlook
There 15 suns concern by many 1n 1ndustry that July and August
have been ‘ ore than the normal doldrums of summer.
Certalnly, many
areas hav- been fltful at best.
on the 0: er hand. early August
sales 1n ajor retall chalns have evldenced encouraglng strength.
The real agglng concern 1: the lack of any strength 1n the houslng
market an no Signs yet of any major move 1n plant and equlpment
expendltues.
Inflatlon.ry pressures are at least passlve for the present.
But again, projectlons of shortages 1n prlmary 1ndustry, mm only
sllght 1n-reases 1n capaclty utlllzatlon due to the lack of new
capaclty nstallatlons 1n recent years, are a cause for real
concern :- many.
The quest on of where eight million college students will get
jobs and hat thelr reactlons Will be 15 they do not 61nd the klnd
of emplo ant to whlch they feel they are entltled? the contlnulng
decapltal zatlon of prlmary capltalqntensme 1ndustry due to
1nadequat depreclatlon pollcy and the fallure to date of much of
1ndustry 0 reduce 1:5 dlvldendipayout ratlos 1n order to compensate
for the s ortfall 1n depreclatlon; the inability to economlcally
justlfy n-w plant expendltures on the basls of present proflt
levels .. all these concerns hang llke a heavy cloud over a recovery
whlch to any 15 not as buoyant as they mlght have hoped, admlttlng
that to char: the lack of boom condltlons 15 a good Sign for a
lengthy r covery perlod.
Add to th s the Volced concern of the bellevers 1n the
Kondratle c longiwave cycle theory and you tend to joln Tllllch
when he s m "we must learn to be comfortable mm amblgulty".
Wage and 'rlce Controls
CMA 03704-
Wage and rlce controls contlnue 1n effect 1n Canada, so that
Canadlan ember companles of MCA as well as Us member companles
ln thelr anadlan operatlons face problems slmllar to those whlch
confronts Us 1ndustry durlng the 197171974 perlod.
Here 1n t e Unlted StateS. the Councll on Wage and Price
Stablllty contlnues to focus attentlon on Situations 1: regards as
1nflatlon-ry. However, whlle 1: does have subpoena power, 1: has
no enforcment authorlty.
In Vlew o the solld opposltlon of both
busmess .nd labor, there 15 no present llkellhood of the renewed
1mposlt1-of mandatory wage and prlce controls.
3. The a.‘ t 3111:
Senator .1“: of Michigan three years ago 1ntroduced a mu
tltled " e Industrlal Reorganlzatlon Act" and last year relni
troduced . sllghtly revlsed Verslon.
The mm as 1ntended to
faclllta - the spllttlng of companles 1n 3 number of named 1ndustr1es
1nto sma ler unlts, provlded that certaln arbltrary arlthmetlcal
measures 1nd1cate the exlstence of "economc concentratlon" 1n the
given 1nustry. The chemlcal 1ndustry was one of seven llsted as a
posslble target.
Th1: ml was formally abandoned by Senator Hart on May 13
thls yean. He conceded that 1:: enactment was not "polltlcally
feaslble ..1n the foreseeable future." He then 1ntroduced a more
modest Mnopollzatlon Reform Act 15. 34297.
1: would amend the
Sherman A tliTrust Act 1n four respects:
1: would ellmlnate any requlrement of proof of 1ntent
m monopllze 1n actlons brought by the Unlted States;
1: would ellmlnate superlor perfomance as a defense
to actlo 5 brought by the Unlted States;
137 1: wmuld ellmlnate the prlma fame effect of a Government
judgment 1n such an actlon for subsequent prlvate trlple
damages;
1: would allow courts to take 1nto conslderatlon economlcs
of scale 1n fashlonlng remedles.
No actlo 1: expected thls year on thls new Hart b111, and
1ndeed 1 n Vlew of Senator Hart's declslon not to seek raielectlony
1:5 futu e 15 dublous.
When the Hart Industrlal Reorganlzatlon Act' was flrst 1ntroduced
MCA (1n urder to be prepared for all conungenmesy, engaged an
economlc consultant. Professor Steven Lustgarten of Baruch College,
CMA 0370.4
r
City mu erslty of New York, to 35515: 1n preparlng the chemlcal mi
dustry's case.
315 repo t, "An Analysls of the Chemlcal Industry 1n
Vlew of he Proposals for Deconcentratlon," has been completed and
15 avall-nle. mule Senator Hart's Judlclary Subcommlttee on Antli
trust an Monopoly dld not 1n fact hold any hearlngs on the chemlcal
1ndustry, the Lustgarten report should be helpful 1n case Congress
1n the c ture should turn 1:: attentlon to our 1ndustry.
4. mves 1ture 1n the 011 1ndustry
es
1
Slnce t e energy Crisis 1n1tlated by the Arab oll boycott 1n
1973, t era has been growlng pressure 1n51de Congress and outslde
for d1v.st1ture 1n the 011 1ndustry 7 Vertlcal dlvestlture, llmltlng
011 Go anles to one or two of the four baslc functlons of the mi
dustry productlon, transportatlon, reflnlng, and marketlng) and
horlzon-al dlvestlturE, requlrlng 011 and gas producers to dlvest
thelr 1 terests 1n other energy sources (coal, uranlum, oll shale,
By a Vale of a m 7, the Senate Judlclary Commlttee has reported
out 5, .337, a Vertlcal dlvestlture mu.
1: woul requlre the 19
largest 011 companles to dlvest themselves of Vertlcally 1ntegrated
holdlng- Hlthln Elva years. No further actlon 1: expected on the
mu th 5 year.
The Adm nlstratlon opposes 1:.
on the hole.
Democra 1c Presldentlal nomlnee Carter inclines agalnst Vertlcal
dlvestl urE, although he seems to favor horlzontal dlvestlture.
The Eco omlc Pollcy Revlew Commlttee has recommended that MCA
oppos
"leglsl.t1ve dlvestlture and/or dlvorcement of the 011 mi
dustry -nd ...51mllar Congresslonal efforts 1n other major 1ndu57
5. Feds 31 Charterlng of Cozporatlons
A serle of Senate Commerce Commlttee hearlngs, chalred by
Senator Hartke, were held early thls summer on the lssues of corpora: responslblllty/federal charterlng, offerlng Ralph Nader a
forum 1 whlch to push his advocacy of federal charterlng for
larger orporatlons, a favorlte cause of ms. However, mm both
the F0 - Admlnlstratlon and Democratlc Presldentlal nomlnee Carter
1n opp- 1tlon to thls, 1: appears unllkely to get anywhere for the
tune b. mg.
The Ec- omlc Pollcy Revlew Commlttee Hill contlnue to
monlto any developments 1n thls area.
5. Eco omc Plannlng Task Force
cMAnsT4a
A task force. h aded by Harold Passer of Eastman Kodak, has
been oganlzed m revlew the Varlous proposals 1n the area of eco*
nomlc lannlng bemg mooted 1n the Congress and elsewhere.
1:
Hill hld 1:5 flrst meetlng September 15.
7. Mullnatlonal Cozporatlons
The Ecnnomlc Pollcy Revlew Commlttee 1: represented by two
member on a speclal MCA task force deallng mm the problems
faclng multlnatlonal cozporatlons.
Other CA Commlttees represented
are Ta Pollcy, Internatlonal Trade, Government Relatlons, and
Publlc Relatlons.
Multln-tlonal corporatlons are under study and/or attack
1n 3 n her of 1nternatlonal and natlonal forums.
There s the
UN Com lsslon on Transnatlonal Cozporatlons, Hlth a related UN
1nfo .tlon and research center.
There s the Internatlonal Labor
Drganlzatlon 1mm. whlch 15 conductlng a study on the soclal unpact
of mu tlnatlonal cozporatlons.
There 15 the Drganlzatlon of Amerlcan
There 15 the UN Conference on Trade and Development
much, where the mum World natlons rally for thelr attack upon
And t are 15, most constructlvely from the polnt of Vlew of
1ndu5lry, the Drganlzatlon for Economlc Cooperatlon and Development
At ho a, the most unportant forums are Senator Church's Sub?
commltee on Multlnatlonal Cozporatlons and the tax*wr1t1ng Com?
mlttes of the Congress 7 Ways and Means 1n the House and Flnance
1n th Senate.
The Lsk force has been monltorlng developments 1n all these
forum.
Thank to an effectlve 1ndustry educatlonal campalgn, the
drlve for punitive taxatlon of WC: was largely turned back 1n
the H-use Ways and Means and Senate Flnance Commlttees.
The trust
dyna taipacked iSSuE, however. 15 that of payoffs abroad.
The
Adm lstratlon 15 sponsorlng a mu calllng, 1n effect, for d15*
clos re. whlle a mu approved by the Senate Banklng Commlttee
woul outlaw such payments.
Mult natlonal corporatlons got off reasonably well at the
annu.l meetlng of the ILD thls Sumner.
The n Commlsslon on
Trannatlonal Corporatlons 15 at work on guldellnes, but 15 not
scheuled to produce them for elghteen months or so.
By 6-1“ the most unportant recent development on the 1nter1
natl-nal stage was the adoptlon by the man on June 21 of a
stat-ment on "Internatlonal Investment and Multlnatlonal Enterprlses.”
CMA 037045
Th1: statement. the product of lengthy negotlatlons among the 24
1nd strlallzed natlons represented 1n the 0mm, sets forth sound
Vol ntary standards for busmess conduct throughout the world and
1nc udes many of the prlnclples long endorsed by MCA member companles
opeatlng 1nternatlonally.
In .artlcular. the statement:
~ p ovldes for natlonal treatment of enterprlses owned by
forlgn 1nvestors, so that they will be accorded treatment no
la: favorable than that accorded domestlc enterprlses 1n llke
51 atlons;
~ 'ecognlzes the sanctlty of contracts between governments and
enezprlsesi
~ ecognlzes the posltlve contrlbutlons whlch multlnatlonal
en exprlses can make to world economlc and soclal progress;
~ ncourages the use of 1nternatlonal arbltratlon 1n resolvlng
d1 putes between governments and enterprlses.
T a 0mm statement 15 not only 1mportant 1n 1tself, but should
a able the 1ndustrlal natlons to take a unified and constructlve
-sture as the debate over multlnatlonal corporatlons progresses 1n
he wlder forum of the Unlted Natlons.
A 037047
Exhlblt 3
REPORT TO BOARD 017 ummmns
MANUFACTURING CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
Ronald s. Wlshart. Jr.f Chalrman
Energy Conservatlon Commlttee
September 14,
1975
Th1: 15 the flrst report of the Energy Conservatlon Commlttee,
establlshed by the Board of Dlrectors at 1:: November 1975 meetlng.
Up to that data, and beglnnlng 1n October 1974, an ad hoc commlttee
had dealt mm energy conservatlon matters.
From October 1974
onward. the Commlttee has malntalnEd, where legally feaslble; a
close liaison and actlve cooperatlon mm the Department of Com res and mm the FEA and 1:: Contractors.
Since 1:: establlshment.
two major responslbllltles:
the Commlttee has been deallng mm
1. Supervlslng the ongolng Voluntary program of twlce*yearly
reports on energy conservatlon m the Department of Commerce and
the F deral Energy Admlnlstratlon.
A5 of the preparatlon of thls
report. the most recent energy conservatlon report was that submltt d 1n Aprll 7 of thls year, 1n whlch 107 MCA member companles
partlclpated.
The report showed energy conservatlon for the
calendar year 1975 as 4.0% per unlt of output, compared mm 1972
as a base year.
Wlthout the energy costs of OSHA and envlronmental
regulatlons 1n effect 1n 1975 but not 1n 1972, the energy consent
tlon rate would have been 4.9%.
An overirldlng reason for the
relatlve modesty of these flgures was that, due to the recesslon,
our 1ndustry was operatlng at only 74.2% of capaclty 1n 1975, com?
pared mm 93.5% 1n 1972.
There are Very few major MCA member companles not taklng part
1n MCA'S energy reportlng program or those of other relevant assocy
atlons. such as the Fertlllzer Instltute and the Phamaceutlcal
Manufacturers Assoclatlon.
These few companles have been 1nd1v1dually
contacted, and will hopefully be taklng part 1n the next report to
the two Federal agencles, due 1n mldiseptember.
Th1: Voluntary program 15 the result ochan October 1974
meetlng between top Commerce Department and FEA offlclals and top
offlclals of some 29 major chemlcal companles, all MCA members.
At
thls meetlng, there was agr ement on a consensus energy conservatlon
goal of 15% per unlt of output by calendar 1980 as compared mm
cm 037049
calendar
1972.
2. Since December 1975, when the Presldent Signed 1nto law
the Energy Pollcy and Conservatlon Act, the Commlttee has been
seeklng to cope mm the new 1ndustrlal energy conservatlon pro*
Visions whlch are part of thls Act.
The Act focuses on the ten leadlng energyiconsumlng 1ndustr1es
by twoidlglt 51: codes, offlclally 1dent1£1ed early thls year.
Not
surprlslngly, our 1ndustry 15m 297 ranks flrst.
For each of these top 10 1ndustr1es, FEA 15 to set an energy
conservatlon goal, replaclng the consensus goals under whlch many
1ndustr1e5. 1nclud1ng ours, have been operatlng.
FEA has contracted
Hlth outslde consultants to study each of the ten 1ndustr1es and
propose goals 7 whlch, of course, FEA can accept or modlfy.
Because of the complexlty of the chemlcal 1ndustry, FEA
1n1tlally had dlfflculty gettlng an approprlate contractor to take
on the job.
However. thanks 1n part to MCA'S 1nterest 1n havlng a
quallfled contractor take on thls responslblllty, Battelle Memorlal
Instltute flnally undertook 1:, Hlth Chem Systems as subcontractor
The englneerlng and technlcal subcommlttee of the Energy Conservatlon
Commlttee worked closely mm the contractors, aiding them 1nd1v1dually
and collectlvely 1n thelr demandlng task, and contrlbutlng thelr ex*
pertlse 1n methodology.
The contractors have submltted thelr .report,
and 1: Will be publlshed 1n the FEDERAL REGISTER 1n late September,
Hlth publlc hearlngs 1n October.
1: 15 qulte posslble that consumer and envlronmental groups may
testlfy 1n opposltlon to any proposed reasonable target for our
1ndustry, so MCA must be prepared to testlfy 1n 1:: own behalf.
Internal studles carrled on by the Commlttee indicate that the in,
dustry can meet a target 1n the nelghborhood of 15%.
In further confomlty mm EPCA requlrements, FEA must 1dentlfy
the top energyiconsumlng companles 1n each of the ten alreadyildeni
tlfled 1ndustr1es 7 Either the 50 hlghestiranklng companles or
those usmg over a trllllon BTU'S 1n energy per year, whlchever
number 15 smaller.
Some an companles reportlng through MCA have
llsted energy purchases of over a trllllon BTU'S a year, and there
may be other such companles reportlng through the Fertlllzer
Instltute, etc.
1: therefore seems llkely that the cutioff polnt
for chemlcal companles Will be somewhat over a trllllon BTU'S per
cm 037049
r
Under EPCA provlslons and regulatlons, companles reportlng
through 1ndustry programs such as MCA'S may be exempted from may
Vldual reportlng, even 15 1: would otherwlse be requlred of them.
The crlterla for acceptable 1ndustry programs will be publlshed 1n
the FEDERAL REGISTER.
However. because FEA 15 falllng behlnd 1:5
EPCA tlmetable, there remalns a 50/50 chance that companles may
have to Elle at least one mandatory 1nd1v1dual report 1n early 1977.
Another sectlon of EPCA provldes for the encouragement and
subsldy of state energy programs.
Here MCA'S prune 1nterest 1: 1n
exemptlng major 1ndustr1es llke ours from reportlng m the Varlous
states. Since they already report to Federal agencles.
If, however.
some states insist upon 1ndustrlal energy conservatlon reportlng,
u would urge them to adopt the same system already 1n effect for
Federal reportlng.
After monltorlng two reglonal hearlngs on
state programs, MCA testlfled to thls effect at the plenary
hearlng 1n Washlngton 1n July.
Another area of FEA concern outslde of EPCA 15 1:: program
to promote fuel converslon from 011 and gas to coal.
The future
lssues subcommlttee of the Energy Conservatlon Commlttee has moniltored the questlonnalres to be sent out to companles 1n thls area,
and has made recommendatlons whlch have been persuaslvely relayed
to FEA through a task force of the Industrlal Energy Users Forum.
~ A genulne success was reallzed 1n modlfylng some unreasonable re*
quests 7 e.g. obtruslve flnanclal questlons 1n the Major FuelEurnlng 1nstallatlon questlonnalre.
The Energy Conservatlon Commlttee has four subcommlttees:
englneerlng and technlcal? state relatlons; fuel types; and future
lssues.
1: has also establlshed frultful liaison mm three other
MCA standlng Commlttees: Government Relatlons, Legal Advlsory, and
Publlc Relatlons.
Government Relatlons contacts have been useful 1n deallng mm
leglslatlon golng through the Congress concerned 1n one way or
another mm energy conservatlon.
Publlc Relatlons have helped 1n
the explanatlon of the effect on energy conservatlon of the
relatlvely low capaclty at whlch the 1ndustry was functlonlng 1n
calendar 1975 7 and our presentatlon 1n thls regard was welcomed
by the Department of Commerce and the Federal Energy Admlnlstratlon
as supportlv
of thelr reports to the publlc.
Furthermore, Publlc
Relatlons ass mbled and dlstrlbuted 1nternal and external publlcai
tlons by m mber companles deslgned to promote energy conservatlon.
We shall look to Legal Advlsory liaison for advlce 1n preparlng
testlmony for the Varlous publlc hearlngs whlch Will be scheduled
as part of the EPCA program.
cm 037050
Appendlx to Exhibit 3
APPENDIX 7 ENERGY summon UPDATE
TOTAL ENERGY
Total energy demand decllned,
over the perlod 1973775.
Durlng the flrst half of 1975 energy
demand 1ncreased shazply and the yeariend demand 1: expected to
near 1973 levels.
Postilg‘la energy demand 15 projected to grow
OIL
011 products demand decllned from 17.3 m 15.5 MM B/D 173.0% AAD
durlng 1973775.
Durlng the flrst half of 1975 011 products
demand 1ncreased sharply, nearlng the 1973 levels.
Domestlc crude oll productlon decllned at about 74% AM 119737757,
although the flrst half of 1975 showed a slowlng of thls decllne.
Imports (crude 011 and products) reached a record level near
flrst half of 1975 and are expected to approach 10 to 11
North Slope crude 011 1: expected to provlde about 2 MM B/D. by
the early 1980's and reverse the decllne 1n domestlc productlon
through the 1980's.
' The Transalaskan pipeline 1: about a month behlnd schedule and
completlon could be delayed even further due to weldlng defects
(current target completlon date 15 December, 19757.
Outer Contlnental Shelf lease sales have been held for Alaska,
Callfornla, and Atlantlc (the development schedule for these
leases 15 undemdedy.
The Energy Pollcy and Conservatlon Act (December 22, 19757
establlshed a new crude oll pricing mechanlsm (lhltlal crude
011 price rollback plus maxlmum lmk/year price 1ncrease57 and
requlred revlew of 011 product price decontrol om date,
resldual fuel oll. dlstlllates. naphtha: (except sNG plant
feedstock) and gas 011: have been decontmlledh].
EPCA requlred
PEA to develop a plan for the malntenance and storage (equlvai
lent of 3 months of 1mport57 of readlly avaliable 1nventor1es
of crude and products for use durlng energy shortages.
EPCA
also establlshed efflclency standards for automoblles and ac,
flclency targets for major appllances and major 1ndustr1es.
oll equlvalent barrels per day.
27 Average Annual Increase
cm 037051
NATURAL GAS
Domestlc productlon contlnued to decllne (75.3% An 1973/757
Hlth 197a productlon estlmated at about 19 trllllon cublc
feet.
No reversal of the downward trend 1: expected through
1935.
A new pricing program was recently proposed by m for
escalatlng the price of three "new" gas (postil/l/‘By classmk
catlons.
Th1: program 15 currently subject to lltlgatlon and
posslble congresslonal leglslatlon.
Classlflcatlon III new
gas (sale to 1nterstate commerce 1n1tlated on or after 1/1/757
1: ralsed from about $0.52/Mcf. to $1.42/Mcf. and escalated at
$D.Dl/MCE./quarter startlng 10/1/75.
COAL
Productlon has 1ncreased at about 3 to 4% AM Since 1973 Hlth
197a productlon estlmated at about 550 MM tons.
Interlor's freeze
on coal leaslng 1n the western states 1: expected to be llfted
early 1n 1977; however, FEA'S objectlve of doubllng coal produtk
tlon by 1995 15 consldered optimistic.
Related developments;
Slerra Club Vs. Kleppe sun has been
settled 7 no extended reglonal 1mpact statement 15 requlred;
oal Leaslng Act has been enacted over Presldentlal Veto sets rules for leaslng federal lands; interlor Department surface
m1 e reclamatlon rules have been establlshed; proposed federal
str mmng leglslatlon has been vetoed twlce 1n the last two
year
mm It: UTILITIES
Electr clty sales, whlch grew at about 7.5% An (1973/7577 leveled
off dur mg 1974, 1ncreased about 2% 1n 1975 and showed about a
5% gain urlng the flrst half of 1975.
Postilg‘l sales growth
FEA coal urnlng orders are now 1n effect for an of the 74 ,new
power pla ts earller deslgnated by FEA for coal burnlng caulk
tles.
Besldes th remalnlng 44 new power plants an addltlonal
49 new powe plants have also been deslgnated for coal burnlng
facilities.
Durlng 1975, 4 exlstlng power plants were lssued
orders to co war: to coal.
Nuclear elect lalty generatlon reached about 9a of total generai
tlon durlng t e flrst half of 1975 and 1: expected to 1ncrease
to about 30% 1935.
Court rullngs eld that:
the envlronmen 51 effects of the
complete nuclea fuel cycle should be consldered 1n 1nd1v1dual
llcense applies lons (concerned the Vermont Yankee Plant 7 1n
operatlon Since 19727; and. energy conservatlon should be con*
sldered as an 31 ernate m bulldlng a nuclear plant.
cm 037052
T.pglslatlon was ecsntly enacted 1n Callfornla whlch requlres
an extenslve stud of nuclear power plant feaslblllty and
poses further del ys for new nuclear plants 1n that state.
Although the Call ornla antknuclear initiative dld not pass,
at least Elva othe states have slmllar initiatives on the
November ballot.
AMENDMENTS TO THE T.EAN ATR ADT
Naislgnlflcant date loratlon of alr quallty regulatlons publlshed
by EPA were upheld y a recent court declslon and Congress 15
seeklng m establls 1:5 own standards.
New amendments to t Act have been passed by the Senate and the
House 15 currently d batlng thelr Verslon.
Both mus 1nclude:
tlghtenlng of the no Significant deterloratlon requlrements for
"clean" areas; some laxatlon of the automotlve emlsslon
standards; compllance date extenslons for 1ndustrlal and utllltles
emlsslon sources; and addltlonal controls for "polluted" areas.
ENERGY TECHNOLOGY
mum has developed a tlonal Plan for multimillion dollar
development and comer lallzatlon of new technologles (enhanced
011 and gas recovery, 11 shale, geothermal, solar, nuclear,
synthetlc fuels...7 an conservatlon (energy ecclmemyy
technologles.
INTERNATIONAL
World crude prices rema n steady mm the declslon by on:
members 1n May to postp he further price 1ncreases; however,
some price 1ncreases ma be forthcomlng after the December, V1975
meetlng.
The Internatlonal Energy Agency has just approved a detalled
gulde for sharlng all av liable oll 1n case of a new 011 embargo.
To reduce 1:: members" d endence on forelgn 011, ma also has
a longirange program whlc 1ncludes:
tough conservatlon pollcl s,
1ncent1ves such as guaran eed minimum prices to stlmulate other,
1nd1genous energy resourc s, and stepped up research on new energy
sources such as solar powe , hydrogen, and fuslon.
0pm productlon 1ncreased rom 27.1 MM B/D 1n 1975 to 29.2 MM B/D
durlng the flrst quarter 0 197a whlch reduced shutiln capaclty
cm 037053
Exhlblt I
REPORT TO THE BOARD 017 ummmns 0F
MANUFACTURING CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
John B. Clark. Chalrman
Patent and Trademark Commlttee
September 14,
1975
you Will recall that 1: 15 the responslblllty of the Patent
nd Trademark Commlttee to malntaln an awareness of new developments
1n the 1ndustrlal property Eleld havlng present or prospectlve unpact
on the chemlcal 1ndustry; m detemlne MCA posltlons where warranted,
and to act Either dlrectly or through the Board of Dlrectors, as 15
apperrlate, 1n maklng MCA Viewpoints known.
Last October I had the opportunlty to report to you on the
status of patent leglslatlon 1n the Congress.
You Will recall 1: was
predlcted that 572255 would be passed by the Senate and forwarded to
"he House for thelr conslderatlon.
You Will also recall that 1n the
Hklnlon of your Patent Commlttee, 572255 15 an llliconcelved piece of
leglslatlon whlch Will have a serlous negatlve 1mpact on the value
of the patent system.
572255 was passed by the Senate and sent to the House mm
llttle substantlve amendment desplte serlous efforts by MCA and others
, to modlfy and 1mprove objectlonable sectlons.
A5 of today, 1: appears
unllkely that the House subcommlttee responslble for patent leglslatlon
Will get to '572255 thls year, and as a result, 1: Hill the nth thls
Congress.
mule thls 15 welcome news 1n that 1: malntalns the status
quo for the tune bemg, we can Very llkely expect renewed actlvlty
next year.
I should note that several changes are needed to 1mprove the
patent system, and that the most 1mportant of these a system for
the raiexamlnatlon of patents 15 the subject of another mu
sponsored by Rep. Wiggins of Callfornla.
Rep. Wiggins 15 mlnorlty
leader of the House subcommlttee concerned mm patent leglslatlon
nd he appears to be concerned mm preservlng and strengthenlng the
paent system.
Our ommlttee 15 prepared to contlnue to 35515: 1n the
deve -pment of constructlve changes 1n the law and 1:5 prlmary efforts
will -nt1nue m be geared 1n thls dlrectlon.
I Wish to speak brlefly about what 15 happenlng 1n the interanal area, but before proceedlng 1n that dlrectlon, I should note
at
Patent I-mmlttee has also provlded comments to mum on a
A patent ollcy.
Baslcally we recommended a pollcy deslgned
attract p. tlclpatlon 1n Governmentisponsored research by companles
cm 037054
Hlth a bacground and experlence 1n the energy Eleld.
To thls end
He urged adutlon of a pollcy whlch would provlde a flexlble approach
to ownershlp of patents resultlng from Governmentisponsored R&D, and uh
would permlt the Government Admlnlstrator to grant excluslve or
partlally excuslve llcenses to energy 1nventors where tltle 15 Vested
1n the Gover ant.
To proceed no Hlth developments 1n the 1nternatlonal area,
you are all aw-re of the changlng attltudes of many of the Developlng
Countrles.
1n the 1ndustr1-l property and technology transfer areas,
thls has resultd 1n new laws 1n Mexlco and other South Amerlcan
J
countrles, a proosed new law 1n Canada, and a great deal of actlvlty
1n Varlous mu. gencles and the Drganlzatlon of Amerlcan States, etc. 1
Since a number 0 MCA member companles are concerned mm these changes,
we are seeklng to deflne the part MCA should play 1n thls Connectlon.
mule to date our actlvlty has been llmlted, we have been consulted
by and have provled our comments to the v.5. Government negotlators
Hlth regard to eff-rts by Developlng Countrles to change the Parls
Conventlon on patets and trademarks.
In addltlon. and 1 response to ;
notlflcatlon of a u oposed negatlve change 1n the patent law of
Talwan affectlng th chemlcal 1ndustry, an Ad Hoc Group of Patent
Commlttee members. uogether mm the v.5. Asslstant Commlssloner of
Patents, were 1nv1t- to meet mm the Talwanese Mlnlster of Economlc
Affalrs to 35515: m 1n understandlng the economlc consequences of Hhal
they were proposlng 0 do.
Th1: meetlng was hel and 1: appeared to
those present that t -y achleved a substantlal portlon of our objectlve!
and that the proposed change will be moderated.
We Will gain a better
feel for thls as He snarlence Patent Offlce declslons 1n the future.
:I
on another front, Canaa 15 proposlng a number of radlcal
changes to thelr patent law, whlch, 15 accepted, would substantlally
reduce the attractlven-ss of seeklng patents 1n Canada.
Commlssloner of Patents together Hlth a small 1ndustry group, has
been 1nv1ted by the an: or: of the proposed changes to meet mm them
to dlscuss the ramlflcalons of adoptlon.
mule thls 15 not solel
an MCA Patent Colrmlttee actlvlty, we are heavlly represented.
The
delegatlon 15 1ntended t“ be a cr05575ectlon of v.5. 1ndustry, and 1n
addltlon m MCA members IuPont. Phllllps, Merck, and Monsanto, both
IBM and G.E. Hill partlclate.
The meetlng 1: Scheduled or October 21
and preparatlons are 1n 511 swlng.
Flnally, 1: 15 my strong eelmg that MCA must contlnue to
play a role “41.5. and w. Will be attemptlng to deflne thls role
more clearly 1n the comlng year.
cm 037055
mum: B
PR ED PROJECT
0N
ayunocmm 5mm CONTROL COST ANALYSIS
The Alr Quallty ttee recommends MCA engage an may
pendent contractor to duct 3 study of the cost of control?
1mg emlsslons m the unpre ented new low levels bemg
planned by the Envlronmental Pr tlon Agency.
The Commlttee
further recommends the study, requlrlng 7 months at a pro*
posed cost of $95,500, be asslgned to Foster u. all.
Some member company ®t1mates place the new permanen 7
Vestment cost at $5 bllllon to $15 bllllon for reduclng 5*
tlmated 2 million tons per year of hydrocarbon emlsslons m t
new levels. Annual operatlng and malntenance costs would be 1n
Draft EPA guldellne documents
indicate estlmates of control costs at much lower levels.
The
crltlcal nature of the contemplated reductlons can be apprecy
ated from reallzlng that 15 lbs/day may be the maxlmum allowed,
whereas :00 lbs/day now are pemltted 1n most clrcumstances.
The study has been deslgned to ascertaln how much 1: Will
Cost, usmg reasonably avaliable control technology (man, to
reach four levels of hourly emlsslon rates and four levels of
dally rate limits.
The study will yleld data necessary :9 e57
tabllsh the relevant costibeneflt correlatlons needed to deflne
the cruclal polnt of dlmlnlshlng return and the cost effectlv ness of at least four baslc RACT methods.
Data will be provlded by MCA member company plants.
Analysls
Will be made by the contractor,
1: 1: expected that about sun
1nd1v1dual member company plant responses will be obtalned. Data
will be encoded for confldentlallty and m facllltate retrleval
for analysls.
Drlglnal data sheets will not be copled and Will
be returned to the orlglnator after the study 15 complete.
Infori
matlon Will be gathered on emlsslon characterlstlcs (flow Volume,
composltlon, concentratlon, solublllty, etc.7, by sources (stacks,
Vents. rellefs. etc.7 accordlng to plant locatlon.
Current levels
of control, the methods employed, and the costs will be stated.
Estlmates of the cost of control will be compared agalnst known
situations to Valldate overall estlmatlng procedures.
Manufatk
turers Will be 1ntervlewed on a selected basls for further cr0557
comparlson and to apply thelr knowledge of the most recent RACT.
CMA 037070
F
To avold dupllcatlon of effort, liaison Hill contlnue Hlth
other organlzatlons, such as the Texas Chemlcal Councll, con*
cerned mm slmllar studles.
There 15 llttle doubt as to EPA dlrectlon.. EPA conslders
nearly all hydrocarbons to be photochemlcal oxldant precursors,
regardless of thelr relatlve photolytlc reactlvlty.
EPA has
advlsed 45 states to revlse thelr State Implementatlon Plans
151w. and to ensure compllance mm the Clean Alr Act of 1970
(P.L. 9175047 whlch does not allow new source pemlts 1n noni
attalnment areas.
of the 247 A11“ Quallty Reglons mom. 74 are
classed nonfattalnment because of oxldant levels.
Major prof
jects are stopped, 1n jeopardy, or delayed because PiL. 917504
does not permit new sources 1n nonfattalnment reglons.
EPA has
also announced a goal of 90a reductlon 1n hydrocarbon Vapor
losses from autos and llght trucks.
Currently, there 15 no 1ndustry data for development of
ratlonal regulatlons or workable guldellnes.
Th1: study 15 in,
tended to deflne the cost parameters so that a costibenflt 35*
sessment can be related to the results of Varylng levels of con*
trol and dlfferent strategles that could be employed to reach
them.
Acceptance of the project proposal 1: recommended.
concurs.
Staff
1
1:
MCA
fl
1
c
c
CMA 037071
I
Exhlblt c
PRoPosE- sway
0N
oquAN LEVEL CONTROL STRATEGY ANDMALIES
When P.L. 917504, Clean Alr Act Amendments of 1970, was
enacts, 1: was expected that natlonal amblent air quallty
standads (NAA057 would be met natlonwlde by 1975 or m1d71977
at the latest.
Tlmely compllance has not been achleved for th
crlter a pollutants 1n many of the 247 alr quallty reglons mam.
Dxldan- (ozone7 levels are belng exceeded 1n 74 reglons, nearly
all of whlch encompass chemlcal 1ndustry concentratlons.
prove helr technlcal understandlng for enforclng the NAAQS, EPA
studle 1n 1974775 focused on the contrlbutlon of urban ozone pre*
cursor emlsslons m amblent ozone concentratlons and on the rel?
atlve ole: of local ozone formatlons and long range transport.
Even t ough observed high ozone concentratlons cannot be explalned
1n ta 5 of alr flow from speclflc polnt sources or even from 51m
gle uranqndustmal sourceS, EPA now 15 actlng to requlre com?
pllanc Hlth P.L. 917504.
Reducton of hydrocarbon emlsslons from
moblle and statlonary sources will be requlred, 1n spite of the
fact t at evldence exlsts showlng that such will not necessarlly
preve the occurrence of high ozone concentratlons at any given
slte.
In or-r m provlde data as m the effectlveness obpmposed
hydroarbon control strategles, the Alr Quallty Commlttee (ADC)
r com ends a study to assess the relatlonshlp between hydrocarbon
level from polnt sources and ozone levels.
The s-udy needs to be undertaken now so that the results can
be av.1lable prior to the adoptlon of hydrocarbon controls, ex*
pests durlng the second quarter of 1977.
The sudy, proposed to
be coducted by the Radlan Corporatlon, Will Cost $54,500.
Twelv metropolltan areas would be analyzed, selected as repi
resen atlve of chemlcal 1ndustry concentratlons (e.g., aousmny
and o nonichemlcal areas (e.g., Denver).
Emlss on 1nventor1es
for h drocarbons and nltrogen oxldes Will be obtalned for recent
years organlzed on a unlform basls, and placed on magnetlc tape
for d-ta reductlon after certlflcatlon of the baslc Valldlty of
the .ta. Amblent alr data will be obtalned for comparable tune
perl-s and quallfled to be certaln that 1: 15 correct, 1: rep*
CMA 37072
rese tatlve. and covers the same time perlod as the emlsslon
data.
Corr-latlons then will be drawn among high hourly ozone
Valu-s, thelr perslstence, annual average concentratlon of
ozon and hydrocarbon emlsslons. A speclal analysls Will be
made of unusual eplsodes and partlcular attentlon Will be glven
m s noptlc meteorologlcal condltlons assoclated mm the unui
sual eplsodes.
A reort Will be prepared descrlblng the results
and nether. 1n retrospect, current or proposed hydrocarbon con*
trol strategles would have worked to reduce ozone levels 1n the
vm ‘ 1ty where control was unposed.
Reg onal dlfferences Will
be xposed.
The flnal report will 1nclude data descrlblng reglonal Vari
lat ons and characterlstlc patterns needed to help formulate
loc 1 declslons as m the severlty, complexlty and approprlate*
has of the reglonal control strategles themselves.
Th1 could
be -xtended to deflne whlch hydrocarbon specles need to be con*
tr-lled flrst or most, whether drastlc reductlons 1n auto trafflc
m 1 work 1n the partlcular area 1n questlon, and what the con*
seuences of exceedlng the standards by dlfferent amounts and
Va ylng frequencles would be, based on what has happened before.
Ac eptance of the proposed study 15 recommended.
c- curs.
5366
MIA
.rln/12/7a
v A 037073
Exhlblt 3
REPORT TO BE BOARD 017 ummmns
MANUFACTU'R NG CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
mmmnm AL TRADE commm
OCTOBER 12
1975
In an effot to lllustrate to you the relatlve unportance of
matters :h.: are now pendlng pertaining to 1nternatlonal trade,
1 would 11 e to quote from Ambassador Frederlck Dent of the
Offlce of peclal Trade Representatlve 151m.
The occaslun was
a plenary eetlng 1n Washlngton some two weeks ago for a group
of Industr Sector Advlsory commlttees (or IsAcy. Ambassador
pent told s that 1mports 1nto thls country 1n 1975 are expecti
ed to be u, 20% over those of 1975, whlle exports Will be up
only 5%. T e expected trade deficit Will be approxlmately
4m b11110 dollars.
Imports of petroleum products 1n the U.S.A.
1973 were alued at 7 bllllon dollars.
Th1: year hey are
expected t- reach 32 bllllon dollars.
Gentlemen. the need for 1ndustry support 1n the 1nternatlonal
trade area has never been as great as 1: 15 now.
Today 1n t e
Unlted Sta es the cost of feedstock for the petrochemlcal mi
dustry 1: e55 than the correspondlng cost 1n the Common Market
may, but t 1: expected to be equal to that of the common
Market 1n .nout four years. Your Internatlonal Trade commlttee
suggests t at strong contlnued 1ndustry support on 1nternatloni
51 trade 1 a must.
I am advls-d that the subject of trade dld not appear 1n the
top 10 1te s whlch certaln MCA member companles agreed to be
those subj-cts of the greatest concern to them accordlng to a
recent sur ey.
However. 1 does appear that we could have
longirange problems 1n our economy, unless 1nternatlonal trade
for our c- ntry 1ncreases to offset these deflclts.
mm thls cenarlo 1n mind, I would now llke to give you an
“utllne of what I hope to cover 1n the next 10 to 12 mlnutes.
First, 1 lan to spend about 3 mlnutes on the status of the
'T negot1.tlons.
The maln art of my presentatlon to you
1 last ab-ut a mlnutes, and thls 15 devoted to the work
t 15 gom on 1n ISACiS (Chemlcalsy.
1 would 1 ke to wind
m> mm a brlef comment concernlng DCITA (Offlce of chemlcal
1ndustry Irade Adusom .
s
am 03709-
In
2
In regard to GATT, I am aware that Dr. Dawson has pretty much
kept you p to date 1n thls area.
The wrlttn report of these
remarks t at you Will recelve Will give you the detalls of how
the tarlf- formula, whlch was flrst tabled by the U.S.A., dlfi
far: from the one that the common Market brought out 1n.July.
The tarlf formula tabled by the v. 5. suggests that all tarlffs
above 5.7 be cut by 50% (the maxlmum allowed by the Trade Acm,
and those below 5.7% by a formula of cuts between 507609;.
The
EC formul. proposes tarlffs would be cut by thelr own amount, a
process tat would be repeated four tunes.
That 15 .. say, a
tarlff of 50% would 1n1tlally be cut in" 50%, the result bemg a
25% tarlf .
uomg nu four more tunes would mean an ultlmate
tarlff of 13%.
The Europan Verslon tends to embrace more
"hamon11.tlon" 1n that 1: cuts the hlgher dutles more than our
formula dues.
we remaln crltlcal of the EC proposal 1n that 1: speclflcally
excludes.gr1cultural products.
The comma Market 5:111 hopes
to keep t 15 dellcate subject separate from other trade areas.
The Inter atlonal Trade Commlttee shares the feellng that the
EC formul.1s not ambltlous enough Since 1: would result 1n an
av rage r-ductlon of the current dutles of about 32% and that
15 before any exceptlons are taken 1nto account.
I underst-nd
that Mr. 0rd durlng ms Visit to the Summlt Meetlng 1n Puerto
Rcco stat-d that the v. 5. should shoot for a target cut of 35a
of the a rent tarlffs of our EC tradlng partners.
Since
Mr. Ford as referrlng to a cut after exceptlons are taken 1nto
account, on can see thls leaves a Wide gap for our negotlators
to close.
A5 to th. timing of the flnal declslon on the tarlff formula,
you are .ware that the Swedes have recently settled thelr else?
tlons.
Soon 1: 111 be the West Gemans and the Japanese. At
the flrs- of thls comlng year, there Will be a replacement of
eight of the nine EC Mlnlsters 1n Brussels. All of nus, cou*
pled Hit our own electlons 1n November. leads your Commlttee
to the cncluslon that not only will there be an agreement on
the fom la. but, also. no serlous negotlatlons Hill begln
before e.rly to m1d71977 at best.
cm 0370.5
I
3
governmet contlnues, however, to let us know that thlngs are
1ndeed bsy 1n Geneva mm Varlous Multllateral Trade wagon?
tlon 1mm subgroups at work hammerlng out prellmlnary detalls.
These suwgroups have been meetlng Hlth our tradlng partners 1n
an effor to come to a mutual understandlng on how to treat
such mat ers as: subsldles, countervalllng dutles, access to
supply“ wovernment procurement, standards and codes, GATT re*
form. an the Very unportant subject of nonitarlff barrlers.
Due to a Wide Varlety of nonitarlff barrlers currently employ?
ed, 1: 1 thought by many that the settlement of thls matter 15
more crl leal than the agreement upon a tarlff formula.
ISACiS:
51x membrs of whom are from the MCA Internatlonal Trade Com?
mlttEE, .re provldlng v. s. chemlcal 1ndustry overvlews on how
we wlsh hese matters to be handled when negotlatlons do flnally
take pla a.
Th1: lea: me 1nto the subject of how ISACiS 15 progresslng. At
our meet my some two weeks ago 1n Washlngton, we were told by
repr sen atlves of the Department of Commerce, as well as the
Offlce .5 Speclal Trade Representatlve, that ISACiS was better
prepare and better organlzed than any of the remalnlng 25 ISACS.
Th1: pr-lse by the government 15 not meant to 1mply that we netk
essarll expect to do better 1n the negotlatlons than we dld 1n
the Ken edy Round nor better than any of the other 1dustr1es of
the vm ed States. but we do want you to know that we see no
reason -or government to eventually polnt the flnger at our mi
dustry .nd tell us that we falled 1n dolng our homework.
There 5-111 remalns an 1nadequate twoiway flow of 1nfomatlon
1n the: large and complex government prlvate sector commlttee
structu-es. At the same tune, 1: 15 agreed that they are tuna?
tlonlng better than they were at the start.
5m commues to
tell us that they are determlned to further unprove the ISAC
system .nd that the outcome of the negotlatlons will depend, to
a great extent. on just how well we have prepared the Geneva
negotla-ors, whlch 1n turn. 15 saylng just how well the ISAC
functloed.
cm na7ue7
4
Due to he complexlty of the chemlcal 1ndustry, we were forced
1n ISAC 5 to fragment 1nto seven subcommlttees whlch are;
Benzeno d IntemedlateS, Plgments, Fertlllzers, Pestlcldes,
Inorgan cs, Mlscellaneous Drganlcs, and Dyestuffs.
The m1
ISACiS ommlttee 1: expected to meet four tunes thls year, whlle
the subroups will meet at least that many tunes. At the pre*
sent :1 e, we are hard at work trylng to detemlne just whlch
chemlcal products would be most sensltlve to tarlff cuts.
Th1:
15 the -xceptlons 115:.
There 1 one key area that I SDllClt
the he . of those of you present today 1n thls respect, and
that 1 1n the Eleld of 1norgan1c products.
More 1“: 1nto
our co ‘ lttee 15 deflnltely requlred by 1ndustry to be sure
that arrest declslons by ISACiS members are belng made.
Th1:
input, as 1: pertalns m sensltlvlty, should be made dlrectly
to the Department of Commerce, and the approprlate address 15
glven n the wrltten report of these remarks.
Industy Consultatlon Pollcy Staff, Department of Commerce,
Washlnton, u. c.
20230
As 15A75 works mm thls exceptlons 115: and brlngs 1: m a
conclulon, we are 1nformed by government that our next step
will b one of belng certaln that we can ultlmately provlde the
necess-ry justlflcatlon for our declslons.
By utllzatlon of a
checklst. we are preparing ourselves to address these questlons
from g-Vernment. We are also establlshlng priorities Hlthln the
xceptl-ns 115: 1tself.
Thus. he crltlcal area for our many
try wlll probably reslde 1n the rules for detemlnlng exceptlon",
and t - ultlmate ability of our negotlators to obtaln exceptlons
for t e import sensltlve products whether 1: 15 on a multllateral
or m ateral basls.
In Edition to thls work on exceptlons, we contlnue to press
gover men: for the converslon of our speclflc and compound
dutle to an ad Valorem basis. the selectlon of the base year
belng the crltlcal matter.
Some ass year has to be agreed
upon n order m provlde a startlng polnt for the calculatlon
of :n- value of the concesslons to be negotlated.
Th1: s more
1mporant for the chemlcal 1ndustry than perhaps any other due
to th fact that we have such a large number of speclflc and
compo nd dutles and m the sharp rlses 1n the chemlcal prices
over he last several years.
am 07099
r
F1nally" I Wish to report that Dr. Dawson, 1n the capaclty of
the m emlcal Industry Trade Advlsor, has reactlvated the
Tech leal Advlsory Commlttee. We Will have our flrst meetlng
tomorow 1n New York Clty.
Dr. lawson has restructured thls
Comm thee. and 1: 15 planned that thls 15 yet another way that
oar ndustry can be sure of addresslng all agencles of our
govenment Hlth unlform Volce.
In Edition to MCA; mm, socMA,
5px, and Varlous members of ISACiS Will all be brought together
tomo row under one commlttee.
Th1: organlzatlon 15 not restrlcti
ed ._ 15 the ISAC program 1n that twoiway communlcatlon 15 pos*
51b1-.
One ltem that was not 1ncluded 1n my outllne that may be of mi
ter-st to you. Gentlemen, deals Hlth a recent survey sent to
the chemlcal 1ndustry by the Stanford Research Instltute 151m
1n onjunctlon Hlth the v. 5. Department of Labor.
Due to the
detll that the survey called for, an overwhelmlng number of
v. .rbased chemlcal companles have decllned to respond.
Am concluslon, Within the next 12 months. there 15 a reasonable
ch. as that our negotlators Hill begln a serlous dlalogue mm
Th-re contlnues m be a serlous need for
co tlnued 1ndustry 1nput m 1nsure we take advantage of all
av.1lable opportunltles.
Ha mg been 1n the posltlon of Chalri
ma ' of thls Commlttee only about four months now, I am happy to
s=- Dave Dawson out there amongst you, and he has agreed to
hlp me answer any questlons.
oritradlng partners.
T ank you.
MA 037099
mum: I
TO THE 13mm: 017 ummmns
MANUFA us CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
E. E. cams 0, CHAIRMAN
OCCUPATIONAL BEA COMMITTEE
OCTOBER 12, 1975
Since my last report to the ard 1n February 1975, repi
resentatlves of the Dccupatlona 31m Commlttee testlfled
on behalf of MCA before the Subcomm on Manpower and aousmg
of the House of Representatlves commlttee Government Dperatlons
at an overslght hearlng on the Dccupatlonal 55 and Health
Admlnlstratlon 1053M, before the Natlonal Academy clences
commlttee on Publlc Infomatlon 1n the Preventlon of Dec tlonal
cancer and met mm Dr. Morton Corn. the Asslstant Secretary
of Labor. An underlylng theme of all three appearances was
that r gulatlon of each and every chemlcal 1n the work envlroni
men: under separate rules 15 unworkable,
1nstead 1: was urged
\that entlre sectors of the chemlcal 1ndustry be covered by
Slmple guldellnes enforced by 1nspectors experlenced 1n that
speclal 1ndustry.
Industrles, such as papemaklng, pestlelde
manufacture. prlntlng ink and petroleum refining were mentloned
as examples where such regulatlon would be approprlate.
, Recently the Natlonal Instltute for Dccupatlonal Safety
and Health mmsm and OSHA have begun to prepare 1ndustryi
Hide guldellnes on pestlelde manufacture and prlntlng ink fori
mulatlon. Furthermore. at a recent NIDSH Workshop on Regulatlon
of Pestlcldes 1n the Workplace, Mr. Steven Wodka, Leglslatlve
Asslstant for The 011 Chemlcal and Atomlc Workers suggested an
approach to worker health protectlon slmllar m the Vlews
expressed prevlously at the hearlng and meetlngs just mentloned.
Encouraged by the acceptance belng galned for the 1dea
of preparlng regulatlons on an 1ndustryibyilndustry basls, the
commlttee 1ntends to further pursue 1:: attempts at 51mpllfy1ng
rules by worklng mm the agencles 1nvolved.
The lssue of identification of all chemlcals 1nclud1ng
trade name products enterlng the workplace surfaced at the
Congresslonal Overslght Hearlng mentloned earller. At that
tune the wldespread practlces among chemlcal manufacturers
Nre dlsclosed whereby products are identified only by trade
name mm 1nadequate 1nstructlons for safe handllng on the
I
CMA 037090
label. We predlct that complete dlsclosure of the composltlon
of trade name products will become a major effort by OSHA 1n
the next year or two.
Recently the Commlttee sponsored the preparatlon of an
artlcle by Dr. H. R. Gaffey, a leadlng epldemlologlst, whlch
provldes guldance 1n how to collect health and employment data,
1nclud1ng exposure 1nfomatlon, that Will be meanlngful and
adequate for future epldemlologlcal studles.
To extend such
studles across the entlre petrochemlcal 1ndustry, we hope to
begln a jolnt mortallty study soon Hlth the Amerlcan Petroleum
Instltute.
At thls time the Commlttee 15 beglnnlng a feasiblllty
study (1n conjunctlon mm the Amerlcan Petroleum Instltute)
on the gatherlng and examlnatlon of mortallty statlstlcs among
petrochemlcal workers.
Since the Commlttee belleves that
worker health experlence Hill remaln toplcal over the next
.several years, 1: 15 also investigating a tumor reglstry among
MCA member companles m be malntalned by a contractor.
1: 1:
expected that budget requests for these two actlvltles Will
,be flrm by January 1977.
I
CMA 037091
cm REDACTIDN nocumms
VOLUME 4
37095 7 37454
11/22/76 1cm 2591712532 and 37097 7 371327 7 CMA Board of
Dlrectors Meetng Mlnutes.
cm concealed he report of 1:5 dlrector of government relatlons
137mm and 37121197. descrlblng the "1mportant new laws" passed at the
end of the 197. second leglslatlve sesslon, 1nclud1ng:
"The Toxlc Subtances Control ACt (PL 9474597, flnally became the
law after Elva years of dellberatlon and controversy, thus establlshlng Federal
controls over he manufacturer, dlstrlbutlon and use of chemlcals." 1cm
371127. dlscuslng mus whlch dldn't pass but whlch were "llkely to surface
agam." 1ncludng: "A mm to provlde strlcter regulatlons of lobbylng...;
Common Cause 1 a strong advocate, whlle Nader groups and the AFL’CID
supported only the House Verslon..." CMA concealed the "apprehenslon" of
"busmess" tha "dues paid to trade assoclatlons by corporate members could
be subject to ubllc dlsclosure under some concepts." cm concealed 1:5
dlscusslon of he fallure of the Clean Act Amendments whose flllbuster
Senator Musky nlamed on the auto 1ndustry. The CMA concealed 1:5
dlscusslon of 'Industrlal Drganlzatlon, the scicalled Hart 3111" who sponsors
retlrees and w 1Ch "smgles out chemlcals manufacturlng and other 1ndustry
for posslble beakup, creates a speclal commlsslon to make dlvestlture
1nvest1gatlons and a speclal court to compel dlsmantllng." 1cm 371137.
cm concealed ts havlng reported the fallure of mu: whlch would have
provlded for " he outlawlng of corporate brlbes to forelgn offlclals" and
proposals "to reate a new consumer protectlon agency," expand the FTC,
cm concealed ts descrlptlon of Jlmmy Carter as "an antli
establlshment andldate for nearly two years" but that "Jlmmy Carter now IS
the establlshm-nt." 1cm 371147. The CMA concealed 1:: statement that
Carter "15 now confronted mm the dllemma of some dellcacy: How to begln
to threat and o motlvate the people and the mechanlsms he as so recently
and soundly ca tlgated.“ 1cm 371157.
The cm conce— ed 1:: dlscusslon of "congresslonal leaders who"
have "obvlousl enjoyed the 1ndependence and status whlch the years of
confrontatlon [durlng the 'stalemate government' of Presldents leon and
Ford] have pr-uced." (cm 3711 57. These leglslatures Simply "covet thelr
1ndependence .5 actlon" and conslder thelr "luvportant role" as belng nothlng
more than "pu 15mm; one Presldent" or "maklng his successor appear
1neffectual..." Longtlme Carter watchers polnt out that "he adopted a tough,
no compromlse attltude towards the Georgla leglslature durlng ms tam as
o:\wp51 \Mollle\37096*37464
Governor." 1 ‘ 371157. CMA concealed 1:5 bellef that "the incoming
Presldent...w-uld apparently retaln the present nonidegradatlon concepts of
the Clean Alr at" and "has called for strlcter enforcement of water pollutlon
control laws .nd evldently will oppose efforts to weaken Federal Water
Pollutlon Con rol Act." 1cm 371167.
cm concealed the report of 1:5 Chemlcal Packaglng Commlttee (and
1:5 exlstenCE7 (CMA 3711971237: "Tunes have changed! Just a few years
ago, chemlcal packaglng englneers mlght be concentratlng on the steel
thlckness of . drum for solvents...," etc.. but "today, he must also know
about the Tra sportatlon Safety Act of 1974, consolldatlon of DDT
Regulatlons... and, looklng m the future, regulatlons on solld waste deposal
and carclnoge 5." And why have tunes changed so? "We belleve the most
unportant fac-or 15 the concern on the part of both prlvate and publlc sectors
for greater S.EEty 1n the packaglng, transportatlon, and dlstrlbutlon of
hazardous matrlals."
cm concealed 1:5 dlscusslon of DDT recognltlon of "cost/beneflt" 1:
"conslders 1n any revlews of package regulatlon changes. Packaglng 15 seen
as a cost 1te 1n our 1ndustry." 1cm 371207. The cm concealed the fact
1:: Packaglng Commlttee "together Hlth the Transportatlon Equlpment and
Transportatlo and Dlstrlbutlon Commlttees, sponsors symposlum on
hazardous mat-rlals regulatlons mm over nun attendees from all concerned
shipper and c.rr1ers groups..." Other evldence 1nd1cates the CMA'S
preference to regulatlon by DOT. cm concealed "DDT has already
1nd1cated ma. they have underdevelopment regulatlons applylng to the proper
packaglng and transportatlon of health products such as carclnogens,
muneglons?? a d teartatogens." 1cm 371227.
cm concealed 1:5 Chemlcal Packaglng Commlttees' reference to 1:5
"responslbllly...to 55515: the chemlcal 1ndustry to meet all legal requlrements
whlle malntal mg a lowirlsk posltlon 1n transportatlon mm proper
cost/beneflt onslderatlon. And we 1ntend to make known the posltlon or
1ndustry on l-glslatlve and regulatory matters." 1cm 371227.
Conslstent wlh 1:5 systematlc redactlon of slmllar reports whlch cm,
desplte repeaed orders of the court trunks 1: has a rlght to "redact" as "nonresponslve" or "unllkely to lead to the dlscovery of relevant evldence, here
agaln cm coneals the Publlc Relatlons Commlttees' report to the board of
dlrectors. Ineed. the Very exlstence of the Publlc Relatlons Commlttee was
systematlcall concealed by CMA 1n 1:: flrst three document productlon.
Plalntlffs 31 age that the "sclentlflc" efforts conducted by the cm
were adjuncts to 1:: overall publlc relatlons efforts: cm redacted as
1rrelevant 1: goal for 1:: prevlous year (one of may:
o:\wp51 \Moll e\37096*37464
"That we shou d establlsh closer relatlonshlps mm other functlonal
areas of CMA o a more meanlngful contrlbutlon m the 1ndustry total
communlcatlon could be made. These thlngs have been done. The assaults
on the chemlc 1 1ndustry by medla and government 1n the past twelve
months have In de 1: 1mperat1ve." 1cm 371247. There 15 a reference to
the actlvltle of that commlttee Chemlcal Regulatlons Advlsory Commlttee
(mum "an oportunlty to partlclpate 1n Dr. Heckert's SPECIAL COMMITTEE
on TOXIC LEGI-LATIDN" whlch CMA says "demonstrated what can be
accompllshed hrough 1nteractlon of functlons when proper leadershlp 15
provlded." [I don't know what thls means exactly though. We do know that
the beglnnlng of thls commlttee (whose exlstence concealed by cum began
"about elghten months ago" and thls would have been around the tune of
the Tenneco/SI "jurlsdlctlonal dlspute" of the spring of 1975.] 1: was
"about elghten months ago" that the "Publlc Relatlon Commlttee stepped
up 1:: practl e of meetlng Hlth the leadershlp of certaln other functlonal
commlttees, p-rtlcularly Government Relatlons, Technlcal and Legal
Advlsory." Th Technlcal Group would have 1ncluded the Vinyl panel and the
llnk mm the Vinyl panel and 1: beglns Hlth Tenneco, who shared the SPI'S
slmllar comm tea. The plalntlffs allege that the CMA'S "sclentlflc" and
publlc relatl-ns actlvltles are 1ntertw1ned and am has redacted thls
statement as 'proof that jolnt commlttee actlon can get thlngs done...:
...What we ha a found 15 that we can work together 7 that we have a
common puzpos and pursult. We have agreed upon lssues that should the
greatest concrn of the assoclatlon [referrlng m the cm generally and the
"jolnt commlt ees" such as those dlscussed here.]" These are human health
and the envlr-nment, and the 1ncreaslng government constralnts whlch he
wrote 1ndustr management of 1:: resources.
cm conceals speclflc references to liaisons between 1:: Publlc
Relatlons Co ‘ lttee and 1:: A11“ Quallty Commlttee, 1:5 Dccupatlonal Health
CommlttEE, 1: Government Relatlons CommlttEE, as well as 1:: Legal
Advlsory and hemlcal Relatlons Advlsory Commlttee. 1cm 371247. cm
concealed th. "the A11“ Quallty Commlttee, for example, will provlde facts on
what the she cal 1ndustry has done about alr pollutlon, and provlde the
1ndustry p051 lon on current leglslatlve and regulatory matters 1n actlve
collaboratlo mm the Publlc Relatlons Commlttee." Th1: document spells
out that "me ners of the [technlcal] task force whlch servlce coordlnators of
the [publlc -latlons] project, recrult the best posslble spokesman from
MCA'S member ‘11.) and arrange platforms 1n leadlng cltles where maxlmum
speaker [1n . cordance Hlth thls plan for "jolnt commlttee actlon" Hlth the
Publlc Relat -ns CommlttEE] would develop his toplc 1n his own way,
weavlng 1n t - MCA’developed materlal at Will." The type of spokesman we
have 1n mlnd are you gentlemen, the dlrectors of MCA, supported by other
chlef execut e offlcers not present today. 1cm 371257.
o:\wp51 \Mol 1E\37096*37464
The cm conc-aled 1:5 dlscusslon of the advantages of 1:: plan to
1nterject th- Publlc Relatlons Commlttee 1nto actlvely resolve Hlth other
commlttees: 'The short range [advantage] 1: obvlous...to gain some badly
needed state ants of the chemlcal 1ndustry polnt of Vlew and Varlous medla.
The longer r-nge advantage Will be galned as we found as we bulld up thls
corps of spoesman. MCA has a constant need for 1ndustry experts who can
provlde stat-ments and can make appearances on relevantly short notlce..."
For the 1ndutry to provlde "news medla" mm 'the other sldes' posltlon
when the stay [relatlng to, say, alr quallty, etc.] 15 breaklng." The cm
concealed 1:- goal as m provlde, 51 carts, experts to furnlsh "the other sldes"
posltlon anylme there 15 a "whole sordld story" to tell whlch the chemlcal
1ndustry nees to come up mm "the other slde" Hlth the asslstance of the
CMA'S Publlc Relatlons CommlttEE. 1cm 371257.
cm conceals that 1:: leadlng envlronmental "Journal ChemEcology"
was. 1n fact. the creature of the CMA'S Publlc Relatlons Commlttee whose
express purpse was to "expand further 1:: coverage of member companles
success stor es 1n the areas of envlronment and toxlc substances." 1cm
371267.
cm conceale- 1:5 "three*t1mes*aiyear CHEMICAL ISSUES AND
COMMENTARY" man 15 descrlbed as a "survey of member companles" by
the CMA'S p 11:: Relatlons Commlttee 1n order "m 1dentlfy emerglng lssues"
and whlch "pactlce goes back to 1973, when we began polllng people
partlclpatln 1n MCA actlvltles 1n 51x companles and the professlonal staff of
MCA...“ but man has "now grown to nlneteen companles and MCA Hlth
over 4m resvondents." MCA has conslstently concealed all references to
and any doc ants generated as the result of the surveys. 1: 15 not
bellevable sch surveys, especlally 1n the 1973774 era would not contaln
responslve luformatlon.
Conslstent R th 1:: systematlc practlce, CMA concealed the cm staff
report whlch 1ncludes a report from the chalrman of 1:5 Dccupatlonal Health
Commlttee th.t the dlrector of OSHA had recently told mm OSHA "would
welcome 1ndutry 1nput early 1n the development of any proposed standard....
Informatlon eslred 1ncludes toxlcologlcal work place exposure data on
chemlcals to be regulated, whlch would become part of the pertlnent
record." (a . 371317, whlch references to cm sponsored TSCA semlnars,
1:5 sponsorslp of "a symposmm entltled the 'Approachlng Toxlc Era' 1n
Houston. Novmber 11th, (CMA 371327. "MCA made publlc addltlonal
toxlcologlca data relatlng m the safety of acrylonltrlle monltor on November
9th as a reslt of feedlng llquld acrylonltrlle to pregnant rats.
o:\wp51 \Mol 1E\37096*37464
In a case 1n whlch plalntlffs have put the CMA'S actlvltles regard susa front and center, am has redacted relevant references to 1:5 havlng
"suspended c rculatlon of elght chemlcal safety data sheets pendlng thelr
revlslon m ncozporate present knowledge regardlng property, characterlstlcs
and handllng' and 1:5 promlse m relssue them someday. Durlng thls time
and years to come the CMA contlnue m "51: on" snrsa, desplte 1:5 promlse
revlslon as arly as 1 974,
1/11/77 1cm 1259312534 and 371337371707 7 am Board of
Dlrectors Metlng Mlnutes.
Again, CMA c-ncealed the agenda for 1:: meetlng, 1nclud1ng both
1rrelevant a d relevant matter pertaining to 1:5 Chemlcal Relatlons Advlsory
Commlttee 1c-c7, 1:5 Industrlal Relatlons Advlsory Commlttee mum, and
1:: Legal Ad lsory Commlttee. In fact, although am has produced at least
three prior erslons of the document found at am 37134, and after
stlpulatlng hat these mlnutes weren't confldentlal years ago, and after never
havlng prevl-usly asserted any clalm or prlvllege whatsoever Hlth the regard
to thls doc ant, and after havlng been ordered unequlvocally to produce
thls documen 1n 1:: entlrety at the Very latest by the tune of the last Case
Master meetl g, CMA has redacted a portlon of a page two pages behlnd 1:
(cm 371367, as "prlvlleged." Only by reference to the (prevlously
concealed) Bands. 1: 1: posslble to even guess thls materlal probably relates
to the Legal Advlsory Commlttee portlon of the Board of Dlrector's report.
cm was ordeed to produce 1n 1:: entlrety months 15 not years ago.
The cm con -aled 1:5 dlscusslon of "Corporate Government
Regulatlons" effect on 1nnovatlon and the express deslre "wlthout
questlonlng overnmental regulatlon per say to impose the least posslble
burden 1n 3 ompllshlng reasonable objectlons." cm consldered sollcltlng
"1ndustry*w1e documentatlon" of thls propertled phenomena ("thls adverse
effect on 1 ovatlon phenomena") 1n the 1nterest of belng persuaslve..." and
the Board oi Dlrector (Mr. Krumren was to summlt a memorandum on the
subject to e Executlve CommlttEE. 1cm 371377.
AS usual. c n concealed all the 1nformatlon on 1:: flnanclal posltlon
1nclud1ng 1 fomatlon that will allow one to see the total amount spent on
CMA'S entlr.Techn1cal Panel was a mere $493,935, less than what 1: spent
on publlc a d government relatlons, comblned and that 1:: flnal chlorlde
research reelved only a small small fractlon of 1:5 funds. CMA further
concealed t e exlstence of the "plastlc scoop" or 1:5 flnanclal package. 1cm
371407
cm conceal-d 1:: survey of member companles m obtaln "sound
data on she leal manufacturlng 1ndustry operatlng costs and 1nvestment
Q’.\Hp51 “4.111937095737454
relatlng m envlronmental management" whlch 1: 531d was "slmllar to that
used 1n 195-" and enabled "dlrect comparlsons Hlth 51mm 1nformatlon
obtalned 1n surveys "conducted 1n 1952, 1957, 1972, and 1975." Such
data "has povlded MCA Hlth factual 1nformatlon useful 1n the growlng publlc
debate over costs/beneflts. 1cm 371427371447.
cm conceal-d the report of 1:: Food, Drug and Cosmetlc Chemlcals
Commlttee (- A 371 5271537 dlscusslng the v.5. Supreme Court declslon
and U.s.v. 'ark holdlng that "a corporate executlve could be prosecuted
under the clmlnal provlslons of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetlc Act for
product adu teratlon. 1rrespect1ve of his personal 1gnorance of the sltuatlon
causlng the adulteratlon and however remote ms 1nvolvement 1n that
Situation" man 1: descrlbes as unposlng "absolute crlmlnal liability based
merely upon the responslblllty of the 1nd1v1dual corporate offlcers for certaln
areas of acnlvlty." 1cm 371517.
cm conceald the report from 1:5 Industrlal Advlsory Commlttee that
1ndustry mlht expect "1ncreased future actlvlty" 1n areas relatlng m
"occupatlon.l safety and equal employment opportunlty. Whether you have
muons or nut, your employees are becomlng aware of thelr rlghts 1n these
areas. If y-u have muons, many are bulldlng technlcal staffs 1n the safety,
hyglene and health flelds the way thelr locals have audltlng the safety of our
work places Several companles 1n our 1ndustry have experlenced employee
health crls 5 1n the last year, mm resultlng employee and publlc relatlons
problems. w must be prepared to devote more management tune and
resources ‘. avold further employee anxletles about the safety of thelr work
"Under the est of clrcumstances, those of us Hlth unlons can expect
to hear mor about health and safety 1n future negotlatlons. muons are
impatient R th OSHA, 1ndeed, the ml, Chemlcal. and Atomlc Workers 1:
slung OSHA. We should expect that thls impatient will result 1n 3 more
threat appr-ach mm employers, 1nclud1ng demands for Safety Commlttees
Hlth author ty, of unlon safety consultants at our plants and hlre Visibility for
such unmnnnented medlcal consultants such as Dr. Irvlng Sellcoff??..."
1cm 371557 cm concealed 1:5 characterlzatlon of OSHA at the time
Morton Corn took offlce: "The perceptlon of OSHA by the publlc,
government, and 1ndustry at the time was hlghly unflatterlng. Morton Corn
has not yet succeeded 1n reverslng, that Vlew but 15 determlned to do so..."
"In short, Orton Corn 1: maklng OSHA a new and dlfferent klnd of
organlzatlo whlch 15 descrlbes as bemg "on a more professlonal level"
and "certal perlod." 1cm 371597
cm conceal-d 1:: "contact Hlth the 1mm Internatlonal Labor
Drganlzatlo through the Internatlonal Chemlcals Employers Labor Relatlons
o:\wp51 \Mollle\37096*37464
CommlttEE, man 1: 1n effect mm need the caucus for ILD purposes of
chemlcal emloyers throughout the world." Th1: demonstrates the close
leslon betw-en cm and 1:: European counterparts. cm concealed 1:5
"problematl 31" concern as to whether the v.5. "Hill remaln 1n the ILD" at all
anymore. 1: reports that the "Chamber of Commerce, whlch represents v.5.
management n the ILD, has taken the posltlon that so long as we are
members, we should be fully actlve, partlcularly 1n seeklng needed reforms.
Th1: appea to be proper posltlon for MCA to maintain."
cm concealed mucus sollcltatlon of thlrtyiflve trade organlzatlons
requestlng "that MCA presumes the role of coordlnator 1n communlcatlng
Hlth the EP 1n respect of regulatlons 1mplant1ng the TSCA." 1cm
371587.
cm appare tly deleted exhlblt F 13715371577 1n 1:: entlrety, whlch
conslsted .5 the report of the cm Legal Advlsory Commlttee. 1cm
371377.
2/9/77 1: A 12535712597 and 371717372027 7 CMA Board of
Dlrectors eetlng Mlnutes.
cm concea ed 1:: establlshment of a "tone substance's contact
responslbl for recelvlng..." from anc, speclflcally a document of a type
cm system.t1cally concealed entltled "Toxlc Substances Management
Memo" 1cm 371757. cm concealed 1:: proposed program on the OSHA
regulatlon of Benzene 1cm 3719171957 and 1:5 posltlon on the Toxlc
Substances Control Act 1cm 371357 whlch 1ncludes references to the
CMA'S "con-olldatlon" organlzatlon of other "avallable data" for presentatlon
to OSHA. H mm 15 "meant to apply prlmarlly to epldemlology studles carrled
out 1n Var ous companles, but not publlclzed from a concern that they dld not
represent . large enough base. Addlng them together may provlde a more
convmcmg plcture. Agaln, 1: was felt that outslde expertlse should be
sought to onsolldate the 1nfomatlon." 1cm 371927. Th1: study turns out
to have be-n conducted by Otto Wong?? and EBA or NCNSR 15 I not
mlstaken. ms 1nd1cates the reanalysls of the exlstlng studles was the goal
from the o tset.
cm concea ed 1:: boastlng over the success of 1:5 mm: and
1nfluenc1n EPA pollcy, 1nclud1ng EPA'S "dropplng 1:5 proposal that impurities
acceptance be reported Hlth annual productlon Volumes." 1cm 371917.
AS usual. MA concealed the report of 1:: Government Relatlons
CommlttEE, whlch 1ncludes a hllarlous recollectlon of how easy am used to
keep mus off the Senate floor or by just leavlng town to "tend to my cows"
when "pres ure got too great." "I'm not saylng thls was the way to run the
o:\wp51 \Mllle\37096*37464
government but 1: was the time when busmessmen had more 1nfluence 1n
Congress tnan they have today. But that day went out mm one man, one
Vote drlve that took place more than a decade ago, [the awn nghts
Movement?? , and for a Varlety of other reasons." am also "redacted 1:5
blas recol ectlon of the hlstory of the evolutlon of unlon 1nfluence, the
1nfluence we televlslon on "selectlng and 1nfluenc1ng members of Congress, as
well as th rlse of publlc 1nterests groups, " 1nclud1ng the Washlngton offlces
of several large companles followlng World War II: "In the last two decades,
trade asso latlons have become as much of Washlngton growth phenomena
as governmnt 1tself." 1cm 371947. cm redacted 1:5 complalnts that 1:
"lacks...g ass roots voles" and that many Congress members are telllng am
that "opln on: from the corporate board room no longer carry the weight they
once dld. nd the Vernacular of Capltal 3111, they ask us: 'How many Votes
have you gut?” The speaker analoglzes the tally on electlon day to the
corporate anagers "bottomillne on your corporate flnanclal statement."
What CMA c-ncealed by conceallng the origins of 1:5 "grass roots
Volce on C-pltal 3111" 15 that 1: marshaled two "resources that presently are
largely un apped by buslness*employees and stock holders" who should
recelve "a understandlng of the klnd of governmental cllmate that exlsts for
preservatl-n of prlvate enterprlse, and an understandlng of how that personal
welfare relates to that of a corporatlon...," eat. (cm 371 957. Th1:
contemplat-s the "moblllzatlon" of employees and stockholders of cm
members. 1 MA 371967. CMA concealed the actlvltles of 1:: Labels and
Precautlo ry Infomatlon Commlttee 13719972007 1nclud1ng 1:5 dlscusslon of
coordlnatl-n of efforts mm the cm of Brltaln, testlmony before a
Congressl- 31 Subcommittee mm overslght responslbllltles for OSHA Hlth
resultlng "opportunlty to 1nfluence Congresslonal thlnklng..." and "wrestllng
Hlth the . oblem of labellng for current chronlc hazards, problems 1nvolv1ng
carclnoge lalty comutlnlclty??, teragenclty, hepatoxlclclty, and the dlfflcult
1nterface netween suspected carclnogenclty and test annuals Versus proven
carclnoge clty" and the appolntment of a subcommittee uncludlng members
of at lea: three defendants7 to "prepare recommendatlons 1n thls crltlcal
area." Th actlvltles of thls commlttee were systematlcally concealed by
am.
am conce.led 1:5 publlcatlon by the same Dr. Gaffe who 15 the
epidemiolglst who orlglnally studled the Vinyl 1ndustry and who
subsequen-ly the Vinyl chlorlde research coordlnators: "Regulatory agencles
often use the findings of the epldemlology studles when they make declslons
and lssue guldellnes. The klnds of epldemlology studles, however, as well as
the data uhey requlre 1n thelr scope of usefulness, are sometlmes not well
understoo. on recommendatlon of the Dccupatlonal Health Commlttee,
therefore MCA engaged Dr. R. Gaffe to Hrlte an explanatory artlcle 1n
technlcal language on Dccupatlonal Epldemlology" whlch had been prlnted as
o:\wp51 \ ollle\37096737464
a fouripae booklet entltled "A Erlef Overvlew of Dccupatlonal
Epldemlolgy." Dr. Gaffe "was mm Equltable Envlronmental Health, Inc.,
when engaed to Hrlte the artlcle" but 15 now at Standford Research
Instltute 1cm 372027. CMA subsequently other references to thls paper.
3/9/77 1: 12539712599 and 372037372507 7 CMA Board of
Dlrectors Meetlng Mlnutes.
cm cones led 1:: board of dlrector's "resolutlon on publlc 1nterests
law flrms (am 37205 and 3721272137 whlch expressly endorses the
"Natlonal Legal Center for the Publlc Interest" whlch 1: says 15 dedlcated to
"tradltlo 51 concepts of prlvate property and competltlon merlt accuracy."
These Eu 5 were formed as a threat result "publlc 1nterest law ﬁlms" such
Ralph Nadr Possesslve Publlc Citizen thlgatlon Groups, Natlonal Resources
Defense C-uncll. and Searra Club Legal Defense Fund "employmg 300 full?
time lawyrs" mm budgets exceedlng 510,000,000 3 year. The Speclflc
Legal Fou datlon (SL177 was establlshed 1n 1973, 1n Sacramenta, CA, to
counterac the actlvltles of the above ﬁlms by supportlng the free enterprlse
system an tradltlonal concepts of prlvate property and Competltlon. 1: has
had many uaeesses. The Natlonal Legal Center for the Publlc Interest was
establlsh-d 1n Washlngton, u.c., 1n 1975 mm "four prlnclple objectlons:"
117 To help establlsh 1ndependent reglonal legal foundatlons dedlcated to a
balanced law of the role of law 1n achlevlng economc and soclal progress
[1.e. aga n 1:]; 127 To research natlonal legal lssues from a lltlgatlon polnt of
Vlew and evelop strategles m achleve the foundatlons' m objectlves...; 137
To act as a resource center reglonal lltlgatlon foundatlons' 1n obtalnlng
quallfle researchers and experts..."; and 147 To 1dentlfy leglslatlve,
admlnlst atlve and jurldlcal trends llkely to result 1n future litigation."
Under the ausplces of the mean, many other reglonal foundatlons
have has organlzed, patterned after the fourirunner pm. "These
foundatl-ns will support 1n the courts the tenets of free enterprlse whlch
nobody e 5e appears to be dolng 1n the area of publlc 1nterest law."
cm conc-aled the Legal Advlsory Commlttee's endorsement of the
actlvltl-s of these organlzatlons and adopted an attached resolutlon of
endorsem-nt.
am, who can't seem to 61nd the secrecy agreements 1:5 sollclted and
other re evant documents concealed the exlstence of 1:5 Technlcal
Informs: on Retrleval Commlttee mm Gulf 011 Chemlcals Cozporatlon as Vice
Chalrman. 1cm 372147.
cm concaled 1:: staff report concernlng MCA testlmony before the
Natlonal Advlsory Commlttee on Dccupatlonal Safety and Health (NACDSm
o:\wp51 Mollle\37096737464
"on regu atlons on worker exposure to suspected chemlcal carclnogens"
proposed by OSHA Hlth areas of partlcular concern 1nclud1ng: "For one,
OSHA 15 onslderlng only 1nherent toxlc propertles and ignoring dosage,
duratlon and time of exposure 1n 1nteractlon mm other substances" and
urglng NCDSH "m dellberate at great length" over a deflnltlon of a
The cm oncealed 1:: "go slow" approach to FDA regulatlons for
good labratory practlces. 1cm 372157. The contlnuous mechanlsm of the
Technlca Publlcatlons Program has resulted 1n the recent suspenslon from
clrculat on of Elva Chemlcal Safety Data Sheets on trychlorlde, ethyllne,
perchlor ne ethyllne, dlmethyl sulfate, acrylontrlle and napthalene Since the
flrst nolflcatlon of suspenslons 1n November, 1975, and that 1:: Chemlcal
Safety u ta Sheets on arsenlc, tryoxlde, chlorlne, morlhydrlde, Zirconium,
and afnlm powder have been wlthdrawn permanently. The cm concealed
1:5 Semi 3r on corporate readlness for compllance Hlth TDSCA attended by
approxlm-tely sun. 1cm 372177.
4/12/77 1cm 1259012592 and 372197372507 7 MCA Board of
Dlrector Meetlng Mlnutes.
cm concaled exlstence and actlvltles of 1:5 Varlous commlttees,
includln 1:5 Alr Quallty Commlttee, 1:: Government Relatlons Commlttees,
and 1ts’ollt1cal Actlon Commlttee: "Dr. Barnes spoke of his company's
experlen e relatlng m 1 sun of thelr employees partlclpatlng 1n seven Polltlcal
Actlon nmmlttees dlstrlbuted reglonally around the country. He expressed
the opl on that thls had been successful effort 1n support of the free
enterprl a system, and offered to furnlsh others mm 1nfomatlon on Dow's
approac " to PACS. 1cm 372227.
cm con-aled the report of 1:5 Alr Quallty Commlttee 1nclud1ng the
observa lon that "we are on strong technlcal ground 1n saylng that oxldant 15
relatlv-ly insensitive to changes 1n hydrocarbons and that hydrocarbons can
not be nontrolled sufflclently 1n most places to obtaln the oxldant's standard.
Los Ang-les 15 a prune example."
MCA conealed that 1: had "been most actlve 1n testlfylng, writing and
Vlsltln- Congressmen and meetlng mm thelr staffs to seek all the
amendme ts proposed 1n Mr. Polzer's testlmony." 1cm 372407.
The cm concealed 1:5 dlscusslon of the EPA Study of Synthetlc
Drganlc Chemlcal Industry and CMA'S coordlnatlon mm 50cm mm regard
to a toal of about forty chemlcals: "EPA states that synthetlc organlc
chemlca s contrlbuted 10a of the total hydrocarbon emlsslons from
statlon.ry sources. They state that control hlnges primarily on proper plant
o:\wp51 Mollle\37096737464
deslgn n operatlon that Hill requlre depth of knowledge by EPA of our
operatl-ns that 15 unprecedented."
cm con salad 1:: dlscusslon of "strong crltlclsm agalnst EPA" by the
mm tha benzene was a Significant hazard and carclnogen, resultlng 1n the
"emerge Cy" whlch resulted 1n the development of "a speclal MCA task
group t- handle thls ltem alone." However, "smce thls 15 a smgle product,
respons to EPA 15 belng made on an 1nd1v1dual company basls [as 15 MCA
were no coordlnatlng the Vlolatlon of the antlitrustl. Eleven MCA member
companls are partlclpatlng. 1cm 372417.
The cm concealed the exlstence of the Foster u. Snell. Inc.
Hydrocabon Control Cost Study and resultlng questlonnalre 1: was fundlng:
"We've ever attempted anythlng m thls depth before, but then, we've never
faced 5 7515 bllllon 1nvestment costs for control of a smgle class of pollutlon
before..." He says the study was "an eye*opener" and "Hill show we
dlscha e a greater tonnage of hydrocarbon than we thought; that we do not
have a good estlmate on emlsslons on a number of sources; that llkely the
majorl y of our total poundage emlsslons derlve from only a fractlon of our
total ources." The CMA has detemlned that 1nformatlon such as thls 15 not
llkely to lead to dlscoverable evldence 1n thls case, indicating a wlllful
1gnora as of plalntlff's pleadlngs and dlscovery. 1cm 372417.
am so seals the was 1:: Air Quallty Commlttee orders up a
"Sclen-lflc" Commlttee requlrlng "medlcal epldemlology input" as 15 1: were a
peca?? "EPA 15 revlslng the 51x exlstlng air qualltles standards and Will be
addlng new ones. Our Commlttee Will need medlcal epldemlology 1nput 15 we
are to react” Unless you object, my 1ntentlon of a nucleus medlcal of
represntatlon from your companles m determlne the feaslblllty of a rebuttal.
A seco d ltem needlng medlcal input 15 an advlce on the concentratlons of
the co munlty envlronment that are consldered safe for all of our chemlcals.
The curent procedure 15 to use the OSHA standards and arbltrarlly take a
percenage of them and call thls safe for the publlc. We Will have to do
better than thls for benzene. achryllnltrlde and eventually all the rest. We
would lan m use your a foremantloned medlcal representatlves to gulde
commlt ees 1n thls cruclal area also. The mum ltem 15 that relatlvely llttle
attent on has been paid by control agencles to our emlsslons durlng startiup
and sh tidowns. emergency releases, and fugitive losses. Varlous estlmates
1nd1ca e that they may be as large as our normal emlsslons and control
agencl-s are startlng to note thls." 1cm 372427. Th1: 15 relevant and
shoul not have been concealed.
Comps - am 12592 mm, say, 372407242. The redacted materlal
makes ense and the materlal cm chose to produce, 1n the context 1:
shows to produce 1:, only created more questlons than 1: answered.
Q:\wp'l\Mollle\37096737464
nannies: do not polnt m thls as a partlcularly "egreglous" deletlon. on the
other hand. 1: 15 as good as an example as any of the CMA'S abuse of 1:5
rlght to redact relevant 1nformatlon.
cm ancealed the reference to the board "addlng a general councll to
the MI‘ staff. Desplte the strength of the present staff support, we
welco e thls and, bemg pushy, hope the time Will come when the
envlr-nmental lawyer 15 also hlred." 1cm 372437.
In a 1mllar vem, cm concealed 1:: Water Resources Commlttees'
refernces m the quallty of the "legal servlces m envlronmental commlttees:
"In H 1Ch the Commlttee wlshed to polnt out that for some tune, the Water
Resou ces Commlttee has been concerned about the uncertalnty and
1rreg larlty of the legal councll 1: recelved 1n the course of 1:5 busmess. 1: 15
part1 ularly unportant that an attorney famlllar mm envlronmental law revlew
comma ts that are prepared by an EPA Technlcal Commlttee for submlttal to
cm 1 response to regulatory proposals are 1n dlscusslon of EPA'S program
strategles. Several years ago, 1n an attempt to provlde such servlce, the
MCA 'oard authorlzed the establlshment of the Joint Subcommlttee of the
Envlonment Law (JSEL7 ...However. other demand member companles'
attoneys tlme, thls does not resolve the problem..." 1cm 372527. cm
conc-aled the concern of 1:: Water Resources Commlttee mm a level of
fund mg for 1:: sclentlflc studles (they are practlcally begglng for 515.0004
cm oncealed 1:5 descrlptlon of the EPA admlnlstrator Russell Traln
as h.v1ng "a strong envlronmentallst leanlng whlch affected agency pollcy,
alth-ugh 1n Reln by the recognltlon of economlc realltles by others 1n the Ford
and llxon admlnlstratlons. We fear that there may not be an equal
rest alnlng 1nfluence on Presldent Carter..." 1cm 372557.
cm oncealed 1:5 staffs reports boastlng of the "consplcuous role" 1:
pla -d 1n respondlng to EPA'S strategy document "assessment and control of
she leal problems" at publlc meetlngs attended by 400 partlclpants, nearly
all representatlves of 1ndustry, 1n Washlngton, on March 22723." (cm
372-67. cm concealed that "MCA has emphaslzed agaln the chemlcal
lonistandlng posltlon that some provlslons of the Clean Alr Act of 1970 are
'raldly leadlng our natlon m untlmely and overly restrlctlve llmltatlons on
1ndstrlal strength' and George Polzer agaln presented the assoclatlon Vlews
bef-re a Congresslonal unlt, thls time on March 11th to members of the
Sub ommlttee of Envlronment on the Health State and Forelgn Commerce
Co lttee..." (amnw Conslderlng amendments to the Clean Alr Act of
1970. George Polzer has presented testlmony "before the Senate 1n
Fe-ruary.“ [Who 15 thls George Polzer, who has "presented the assoclatlons'
Vl-ws" on the amendments to the CAA of 1970.] (CMA 372577.
0: prl \Mollle\37096*37464
M » "expressed concern...that namlng certaln contamlnants 1n the mm
a ectlvely judges the need for controls and that 'all elements of doubt will
b- resolved 1n favor of control, whether or not hearlngs and studles
dmonstrate an afflrmatlve need for them." 1cm 372577.
c A endorsed the TASA language "Hill not cause or slgnlflcantly
-ntr1bute an unreasonable rlsk m publlc health" ..."regard1ng zero rlsks and
lsks/beneflt." CMA says 1: 15 "less than Hath of the problem" caused by
ydrocarbon emlsslons, as opposed to "motor Vehlcles and fuel marketlng."
"Two percent adltlonal 1nvestment by 1990" would not be 1ntolerable."
cm doesn't suport the "Rooney Amendment" whlch place
"prlmarlly resonslblllty on the state for grantlng Varlances for expanslon or
new constructln 1n areas where the natlonal standard 15 belng exceeded"
because MCA is t "the amendment could be 1nterpreted as requlrlng track?
offs." (CMA 37587. CMA announced on Aprll 5th, supplementlng 1:
2/17/77 testlmny before the NAC on OSHA, "MCA 531d the chemlcal
1ndustry 15 delcated m protectlng 1:: workers from known hazards. on the
other hand. we held that occupatlonal cancer '15 not the major publlc health
spectre some h.ve suggested.‘ 'Cancer 15 a complex subject,‘ we polnted
out. 'Quallfle experts see the subject 1n perspectlve, and through
perspectlve we belleve the problem and 1:5 reductlon can be addressed
cm wants "a c-mmlttee of cancer experts" to study the "avallable
facts" and "5c entlflc/medlcal guldellnes for use by OSHA 1n thls area"
composed from .cademla, 1ndustry, labor, toxlcology groups and
government.
cm opposed ge erally appllcable regulatlons and wants 1:: panel of
"quallfled exp-rts." "Each chemlcal must be addressed on a Cassibyicase
The thlrd thln the CMA recommended that OSHA 1nclude 1n "5 new
proposal for g 1dellnes regulatlng carclnogens 1n the work place" was the use
of "performanc- rather than speclflc routes to deslred perfomance," 1.E. 15
performance st.ndards. 1cm 372587.
MCA'S support or "DSHA'S 'ABC' Plan for Work Place Safety" whlch
would use 1ncet1ves on grade "B" companles and concentrate thelr
enforcement ef orts on grade "A" companles, conslstlng of those found to
have 1neffect1 e programs." 1cm 372597.
Q:\Hp51 \Molll\37096*37464
5/10/77 7 (cm 1259312594 and 372527372967 7 MCA Board of
Dlrectors Meet my Mlnutes.
(Last tune "cm concealed" 15 used unless I speclflcally say my
cm concealed ASA unplantatlon Rlchard E. Heckert, the Senlor
Advlsor m the Executlve Commlttee on TASA. Becker: was to meet mm
ERA admlnlstraor Castle :9 dlscuss the "tendency to overiregulate ...as well
as to emphaslz the llmlted avaliablllty of testlng facllltles to conduct
toxlcologlcal Valuatlon." 1cm 372657.
cm concealed helr report of thelr dlrector on Government Relatlons.
(am 37255 and 3727572857: "Heated battles...took place 1n both House
and Senate ova rules whlch will apply to the expanslon of 1ndustrlal facilities
1n areas where alr quallty does not meet natlonal health standards." CMA
refers to 1:5 effort to set Esme the EPA 'trade off polley,’ a broadly
supported busl e55 effort...mounted 1n both commlttees" of the House and
Senate whlch Hrs conslderlng those rules. 1cm 372937.
"Concern was a pressed by subcommlttee members (Senate
Commerce Subco lttee on Salencey that Castle has not requested
sufflclent funlng to properly admlnlster the law..." In his request to the
appropriatlon .uthorlzatlons on EPA (29 million for 197s and 50 mllllon for
19797, prior t- havlng left his posltlon 1n the EPA, the prevlous EPA
Admlnlstrator ran has asked for 52 million for 197s 1nstead of 29 mllllon.
cm dlscusses he proposed amendment to TSCA to establlsh Toxlc
Substances Inj ry Asslstance Act whose sponsor (Senator Gucnm feels
"...that the Fderal and State levels of governments should respond to
chemlcal conta 1natlon as much as they do 1n cases of natural dlsasters.
However. Costl 1n the Envlronmental Drganlzatlon supported a concept of
1nvolv1ng fund contrlbuted by the manufacturers." cm does not say
whether 1: opp-sed or supported thls leglslature. 1cm 372347.
The Insurance ommlttee reported to the board that "to put 1: Simply,
The Llablllty arket 1: 1n 3 state of utter chaos..." CMA suggests "glvlng
serlous consldratlon m assumlng more of the rlsks, coupled Hlth '1nihouse'
rlsk managemen discipline procedures to control losses. The name of the
game contlnues to be loss preventlon." 1cm 372957.
The chalman o the Insurance Commlttee says he 15 "hopeful that
am will be able to 1nfluence leglslature to the beneflt of the chemlcal
1ndustry" mm regard to product llablllty "leglslatlve refom" actlvltles. 1cm
372377
Q:\Hp51 \Molll-\37096*37464
The CMA refers to 1:5 "flnallzatlon of a Loss Data Bank" whlch the
Insurance Comttee has been creatlng for the last Elva years and whlch
contaln "statltlcs and pertlnent 1nformatlon on property losses." ...Under
stewardshlp of MCA to provlde unlfomlty of reportlng 1n confldentlallty...
cm concealed ts staff report, 1nclud1ng the reference to 1:5 prlnclple
concern: "Impr-Ved deflnltlon and 1nterpretatlon of air quallty standards,
11mm: on 1ndutrlous expanslon 1n areas falling to obtaln health standards, no*
growth unpllca lons of federallyienforced pollcy of nonideterloratlon, and
rellef from cetaln Elexlble statutory compllance deadllnes." The Bentsen
Amendment woul allow exceptlons 1n nonfattalnment areas "under certaln
condltlons." 1 A 372957. The cm learns that OSHA has announced a
one ppm ms, -wn 10 elghtihour TWA, lowerlng the Calling from 25 to 5
ppm ellmlnatl . "the peak level of 50 ppm for a 1 5 mlnute perlod durlng the
elghtihour da " under the prior standard. 1cm 372957. Dr. Bmgham
promlsed work -n developmg a permanent standard whlch would be
complete 1n :1 months. 1cm 372957.
cm concealed hat 1: "arranged 55 televlslon 1ntervlews and 72
radlos 1ntervlews mm 15 member companles' representatlves at thls
Amerlcan Wome 1n Radlo and Televlslon Conventlon..." and "1ntervlewed
ten 1ndustry epresentatlves," and Sent 1000 Copies "of these 1ntervlews...to
extenslon hom- economlsts around the country for use on thelr local radlo
372957. Nlnet *three percent of the 500 people attendlng the Amerlcan
Women 1n Radl- and Televlslon Conventlon "Vlslted MCA'S
sulte...Conve tlon attendees 1n our sulte was the most popular of all." 1cm
372957 .
cm concealed 1:5 dlscusslon of "suggestlon made some months ago
that conslder.tlon be given to merglng 50cm (Soclety of Drganlc's
Chemlcals Man facturer Assoclatlom, 1dent1£1ed 1n plalntlffs dlscovery 1nto
MCA. Th1: mat er havlng been studled jolntly by the MCA Executlve
Commlttee and 50cm Board. a merger has been abandoned for the
present. Inst.ad. closer liaisons 15 m be malntalned through crosswlsuamon
meetlngs of t e offlclal bodles of the two organlzatlons." 1cm 372557.
Willlam J. Dr Ver dlscussed ms meetlng Hlth a CEFIC Delegatlon ("European
Councll of Ch-mlcals Manufacturers Federatlons") and dlscusslons 1ncluded
"governmental regulatlon of alr and water pollutlon control and toxlc
cm agaln con-ealed any reference to 1:5 envlronmental management
survey, here, 1n fact, the response to the request for the survey 1nformatlon
Q:\Hp51 \MoHl\37096*37464
has been "d15.ppolnt1ng" mm only 99 companles submlttlng data whlch
compared to 1 an "1n 3 Similar survey two years ago" [1n whlch survey results
have also has concealed]. (CMA 372567.
cm concealed 1:5 dlscusslon of "OSHA Cancer Pollcy Proposal" and
MCA'S havlng rltten the NAS on 053 "urglng the establlshment of a
Revlew Commlt-ee of cancer experts from academla, government, labor,
toxlcoloqy. a :1 industry groups..."
5/9/77 7 (cm 12595712595 and 37299737307 7 MCA Board of Dlrectors
Meetlng Mlnuts.
cm concealed the meetlng schedule of 1:: Board of Dlrectors of
1977778, whlc refers to meetlngs every month except July and August
mm all meet ngs taklng place 1n Washlngton, u.c., except three 1n exotlc
locatlons. 1 A 373007. cm concealed 1:5 liaison mm 50cm and the
fact that the E.P. Blanchard. the Presldent of SDCMA, was 1n attendance 1n
the meetlng a d that the CMA'S George F. Polzer reported on his attendance
at recent so A board meetlngs and havlng "responded enthuslastlcally,
saylng that c oser liaisons should 1dentlfy opportunltles for compllmentary
actlon and th.t he would be pleased to contlnue to represent MCA and
fosterlng :m- relatlonshlp." 1cm 373007.
cm concealed the fact that Vlrtually all 1:: "nonibudgeted funds and
meetlngs" 1nvmlved Vinyl chlorlde or other chlorlnated hydrocarbon research
mun a few e ceptlons, llke phosgene, fluorocarbons, and benzene.) 1cm
373037. The s-cond Verslon (July, 19957 or cm 125957
MCA moved to ntervene 1n the API'S 5m: requestlng revlew of
osaA's ms to benzene lssued Aprll 29th. 1cm 373077.
9/13/77 1cm 2597712593 and 3730973733277 MCA Board of Dlrectors
Meetlng Mlnut s.
cm concealed 1:5 pollcy on lobbylng recom (am 37311 and
373207 whlch would requlre substantlal changes 1n reportlng, record
keeplng and d sclosures 1n fundlng sources 1n such a manner as to ralse
serlous quest ons for trade assoclatlons and thelr members." 1cm 373207.
The CMA wants to make sure that any new leglslature at least 1: 15 llmlted to
Congress and at to the Executlve Branch or "gr3557roots" lobbylng actlvltles
and speclflca ly that 1: "not requlre the compulsory dlsclosure of trade
assoclatlon mmbershlp and dues 1nformatlon..." 1cm 373207. [of course,
cm would budet huge amounts of money to Varlous publlc relatlons and
sclentlflc at art: as well as threat lobbylng actlv1t1e5.]
Q:\wp51\Molll\37096i37464
cm concealed the exlstence of 1:5 Chemlcal Regulatlon Advlsory
CommlttEE, Inustrlal Relatlons Advlsory Commlttee, Insurance Commlttee,
and Publlc Re atlons Commlttee 1cm 373197. Th1: 15 not an lsolated
1nc1dent. The CMA conslstently concealed every reference to these
commlttees an thelr actlvltles throughout the documents 1: produced 1n thls
case.
The CMA conce-led the report of 1:: Government Relatlons Commlttee
1cm 37321732.7. 1nclud1ng 1:: reference to proposed labor reform mus,
"LOBBYING REFIRM BILLs, warca coULD SBARPLY AFFECT THE
BUSINESS com um..." (emphasls 1n the orlglnal.)
cm concealed 1:5 alllance mm the NAM and the Unlted States
Chamber of Co merce 1n "rallylng to seek enactment of leglslatlon whlch
would correct the 1nadequac1es of the present lobbylng laws wlthout placlng
the reasonabl constralnts and burdensome requlrements on organlzatlons
and 1nd1v1duals Hlshlng to communlcate mm members of Congress..." The
The CMA conce-led the fact that the presldent (here, Willlam J.
Drlver7 of th- cm may hlmself "approve" studles whlch are "conducted
under the subcrlbed speclal projects program bemg admlnlstrated by MCA."
Here, no vcm elated project was dlscussed (although an EDC project 15
d15cussed7i .wever, because of the systematlc manner CMA redacted
relevant 1nf-matlon whlch would allow a reader to understand the context of
"unredacted 1 fomatlon." unless I read am 37327 or any slmllar staff
report. They .11 were redacted of the 1nformatlon whlch reveals thls relevant
1nfomatlon . to how "speclal projects program" such as the MCA
admlnlstered 1nyl projects operate, speclflcally the Vinyl panel. The CMA
concealed 1:5 presldent's report of CMA'S reflnement of 1:5 "Vlews on
confldentlal y as thls lssue 15 1nvolved 1n Sectlon e" of TASA and 1::
reference to . "task force composed of members of the Chemlcal Regulatlons
Advlsory and echnlcal Infomatlon Retrleval Commlttees" whlch would
address the nnfldentlallty" lssues, 1nclud1ng 51mply usmg "total Volume of
productlon" .5 "acceptable" method of "1nventory reportlng," etc.
cm conceals 1:5 havlng told the EPA conslderlng 1nadequate
methodology sad to develop the prellmlnary 115: that Will be used to develop
the flrst pr orlty 115: of clay substances to be scrutlnlzed under the Toxlc
Substance Co trol ACt," etc. 1cm 373317.
Q:\Hp51\Moll e\37096*37464
10/11/77 1cm 125997125007 7 MCA Board of Dlrectors Meetlng Mlnutes.
Dr. Ula Bing am "Hill address the next MCA chemlcal forum"
(11/1/777 an CMA recognlzed that 053 A actlvltles "are of a contlnulng
1nterest to me chemlcal 1ndustry, and Dr. Elngham's appearance especlally
tlmely 1n nu of osaA's recently proposed generlc standards for
carclnogencl-y..." publlshlng of the Federal Reglstry on October 4m. 1cm
373507 .
cm conceals the staff report of 1:5 presldent. 1cm 3735173557.
cm conceals 1:5 submlsslon of a "long document" :9 OSHA on
9/22/77 stat ng, "that there 15 no substantlal evldence of record to support
the proposed concluslon that the health and safety of employees will be
enhanced by hanglng the standard from 10 ppm/25ppm m 1ppm/5ppm"
and 15 there 15 "no evldence that leukemla has resulted from exposure to
benzene at t a current concentratlon 11mm.» mm the regulatlons descrlbed
as represent my "an 1ntolerable mlsallocatlon of economc resources" whlch
"would not 1 rows safety 1n the work place, but would merely elevate a
declaratlon c pollcy m a posltlon superlor to a sclentlflc evldence whlch
Congress has determlned to be the prlmary basls for the fomulatlon of the
cm conceals MCA'S havlng "protested to the Envlronmental
Protectlon Aency the efforts to 11m: the emlsslons of Vinyl chlorlde even
further are nreasonable" and refers speclflcally m a letter wrltten by Drlver
[also not prmduced to my knowledge] to EPA on 9/22/77 statlng "that
member compales have grave concerns about EPA'S zero rlsks/zero
emlsslon appoach m regulatlon, seemg 1: as an apparent departure from the
1ntent of Cogress for reasonably actlng on the Clean Act Amendments of
1977" and Eu ther that "there 15 no compelllng evldence to act now"
"am (who de sated jurlsdlctlon 1n the Vinyl chlorlde consplracy case
a few years ater) reports that more than 1 50 people took part 1n MCA'S
annual 'workhop on safety and health 1n the chemlcal 1ndustry' 1n New
Orleans last month." 1cm 373547. am also concealed that Dr. Bmgham,
Asslstant Seretary for Dccupatlonal Safety and Health, Department of
Labor, would speak at the Chemlcal Forum on 11/1/77 at Washlngton Hllton.
1cm 373557
Q:\Hp51\Moll e\37096*37464
11/21/77 1cm 12501712502 and 373557373937 7 am Board of Dlrectors
Meetlng Mlnu as.
am conceals the partlclpatlon of 50cm mp. Blanchard, 3.1. du
cm conceals the proposed rules of organlzatlon and procedure for
the Chemlcal Regulatlons Advlsory Commlttee mum. 1cm 373597.
Although cm agreed that these mlnutes were not confldentlal years
ago, 1: cont nues to defy the court's orders not to redact 1rrelevant
1nfomatlon rom responslve documents, here, a large sectlon of the
dlscusslon o the Technlcal and Functlonal Commlttee reports 1: recelved
[and whlch a e not attached (and whlch CMA has not produced anyway),
1nclud1ng te hnlcal commlttees on such matters as air quallty, chemlcal
packaglng, eucatlon actlvltles, government relatlons, 1nsurance, labels and
precautlonar 1nfomatlon, etc.] (CMA 3735973507.
cm conceals 1:5 dlscusslon of 1:5 "Rlsks/Beneflt Analysls" whlch
"hlghllghted carclnogenclty as the cruclal current problem relatlng to
rlsk/beneflt analysls, mm resolutlon of the threshold concept belng Vital for
understandln-" (CMA 373517.
cm conceals the fact that what later came to be known as the
Amerlcan Ind strlal Health Councll (AIHC7 began 1:5 exlstence as an "1nteri
1ndustry :35 group for a ratlonal cancer pollcy" and that the chalman of thls
commlttee Ha on the am Board of Dlrectors. 1cm 373527. The purpose
of AIHC 15 :- "brlng ratlonallty m 053 A regulatlons concernlng cancer." The
actlvltles o the AIHC are speclflcally 1dent1£1ed as bemg the result of "a jolnt
effort Hlth CA. 50cm and other trade assoclatlons as well as numerous
1nd1v1dual c-mpanles and Varlous 1ndustr1es partlclpatlng." 50cm provlded
staff suppor , and the 51m Cleary, Gottllebe, Steen, Apersand, and Hamllton
have been re alned as legal councll. The CMA concealed the "cooperatlve
and construe 1Ve relatlonshlp Hlth OSHA." He stressed thls followlng ms
dlscusslon o a Visit he made to OSHA Admlnlstrator Dr. Ula Elngham. 1cm
373527 .
The AIHC was charged "to develop a 115: of suspected commerclal
carclnogens" as well as "1nfomatlon that Hill 55515: a company to assess the
unpact of reulatory actlon on 1:: own operatlons, and 1nformatlon that will
help companl-s to prepare to testlfy." 1cm 373527.
cm conceals the report 1:: board of dlrectors recelved from 104
member comp.1es respondlng to surveys whlch 1nd1cate product llablllty "m
be a proble 1n respect to chemlcal manufacturlng.." but "was not shown
Q:\Hp51 \Mollle\37096*37464
to be a maj-r one as 1: 15 the case for machlnery manufacturers or those
engaged 1n upplylng consumer products." [emphasls supplying] 1cm
373527 .
"The Commlt ee 15 reservlng judgment on Workmen's Compensatlon
Law as the ole remedy Since that surely would be Very expenslve." 1cm
373527 .
cm conceald that 1:: Board of Dlrectors recelved reports from CUT
(Chemlcal I dustry Instltute of Toncologw, here represented by "Mr.
Flemlng," 1-5 Chalman, who 1ntroduced Dr. Goldberg, CIIT'S presldent "who
spoke of th Instltute's objectlves and progress 1n toxlcologlcal testlng of
wldely dlstlbuted baslc chemlcals, research and test methods 1n
1ntezpretat on of data, and training of toxlcologlsts" and that all thls
toxlcology -est1ng was "belng supported by 29 companles mm a three*year
comltment 19737807 totallng 20 mllllon dollars" and bulldlng a staff of 75.
(cm 373537 Plalntlffs dlscovery, the Varlous court orders, and plalntlffs
subpoena cl-arly and speclflcally requested 1nfomatlon mm regard to
contacts be-ween cm and am.
am conceald that, except for a wellibudgeted 1ndustry Hide
benzene stu-y, the entlre budget for CMA Research relates :9 Vinyl or
plastlcs (BM, vuc, Styrlne, Acryllonlterlle, Trlchlorethylene, EDC,
Chlorbenzne Eplchllorohydrln, Phthalate, Esters, Epoxy Reslns??, and
Tltanlum Dlxlde. CMA 12502, CMA'S orlglnal productlon and am 37355
am also so sealed the entlre "Plastlc's Group Flnanclal Package"
cm conceald the rules of organlzatlon and procedure of am:
(am 373597 727 whlch coordlnated the actlvltles of Varlous CMA panels
cm knew pl.1ntlffs knew about. However, CMA knew plalntlffs dld not
know about he Chemlcal Relatlons Advlsory Commlttee of the CMA (mum
whose state purposes 1ncluded advlslng the board "concernlng the testlng
and regulatry control of chemlcals at the polnt of manufacturer 1dent1£1ed
mm potent 31 hazards to health and the envlronment..." and to "fomulate
and advocat chemlcal 1ndustry posltlons... cooperate mm other MCA
commlttees, and promote exchange of 1nformatlon Within the chemlcal
1ndustry, R th trade and professlonal assoclatlons, and mm all levels of
government egardlng good practlces 1n controlllng chemlcal hazards. 1cm
373587 .
cm conceald that membershlp 1n thls commlttee was llmlted m
candldates hose "dutles for his employer... 1nclude formulatlon of pollcles
Q:\Hp51 \Mo lle\37096*37464
and dlrectlun of programs related to toxlc substances control through
research, I; allty control, product development, occupatlonal envlronmental
safety or a lled functlon." 1cm 373597.
cm conceald the exlstence of the "General Prlnclples Appllcable to
the Structu e and Operatlons of Commlttee" whlch "prescrlbes" the
"responslblltles" of the Secretary, the MCA Staff Representatlve asslgned to
each am so mlttEE. 1cm 373707. CMA 5:111 has not produced thls
"General Prnclples" document and, 1n fact, systematlcally concealed the
exlstence o the organlzatlonal structure 1n whlch the pertlnent CMA
actlvltles uccurred. The orlglnal date of thls document appears to have been
March 12, 1.53, mm subsequent amendments 1cm 373727.
cm conceal-d the report of 1:: Government Relatlons Commlttee
1cm 373747797. 1nclud1ng dlscusslons of TSCA amendments mm "MCA
actlvlty 1 thls area... under way 1n the Legal Advlsory Subgroup" of cm:
and that " "AC 1ntends to prepare a posltlon paper for use on the 3111."
cm conceal-d the exlstence of 1:5 Washlngton Envlronmental
Coordlnatl . CommlttEE, here bemg 1nfomed of problems of mm: mm
proposed TS A amendments 1cm 373767.
cm conceal-d 1:: staff report 1cm 3739073937, 1nclud1ng 1:5
expectatlo that OSHA would "lssue 1:5 pemanent standard sometlme
between Th.ksg1v1ng and mddle of December" for benzene and 1:5
awareness at EPA. regulatlng benzene under Sectlon 112 of the Alr Quallty
Control Ac , and that 1: had lssued three documents on Amblent Alr
Dlstrlbutl- of Emlsslons and Rlsks to Human Health 1cm 373307.
cm concea ed 1:: agreements mm the Franklln Instltute Research
Laboratorl-s 117mm "to provlde MCA 1nformatlon necessary for updatlng
safety dat. sheets and detemlnlng whether, 1n 3 partlcular 1nstance [for
example, 5-755, whlch desplte 1ndustry pledge to relssue 1n 1974 wouldn't
see the 11h: of day for years, 15 1: ever dld], a Safety Data Sheet would be
temporarll wlthdrawn from dlstrlbutlon pendlng revlslon..." 1cm 373317
The CMA re-ognlzes that there 15 only "approxlmately lDD chemlcals we
have publlhed a safety data sheet" to begln wlth. 1cm 373917. cm
concealed me exlstence of "plastlcs waste management" 1: flrst descrlbes as
havlng bee "publlshed 1n 1 97B" and the exlstence of "flammablllty testlng
of polymer-" whose data 15 not given 1cm 373917.
cm concea ed Very relevant 1nformatlon pertaining to 1:: knowledge
and unders-andlng of "notlflcatlon of substantlal rlsks under Sectlon e 1e)" of
TSCA mus 15 dlrectly relevant to the Buss Audlt of IBT dlscussed at the
Q:\Hp51 \M-llle\37096*37464
emergency -esslon of the VCR: 1n 1980 where Ed Frost dlscussed cm
lawyers ha mg "gone through the flies" of cm followlng dlscusslon of
document w 1Ch "mlght smk the CMA."] CMA'S posltlon as the concealed
portlon re e315 1: expressed to EPA was that Sectlon e (E7 of TSCA will
cause 1neflc1ent over reportlng [z] of 1nfomatlon m the agency and cause
serlous 1nernal difficulties for the chemlcal 1ndustry...," whlch, unllke the
rldlculous predlctlon of "lnefflclent over reportlng," actually may have
occurred 5 nae fraudulent under reportlng under TSCA dld 1n fact create
"serlous lternal difficulties for the chemlcal 1ndustry..." whlch, at least 1n
the Vinyl, was resolved "lnternally" through knowlng Violation of TSCA ad e
(E7 provls ons as only a small part of 1:5 "1nternal dlfflcultles" 1n complylng
mm the 1." or any requlrement that 1: reported Significant or true
1nfomatlo mm regard to toxlclty to anyone. 1cm 373927.
1/10/79 ((1 1250312504 and 373957374047 7 MCA Board of Dlrectors
Meetlng M1 utes.
cm concea ed 1:: 1ntroductlon of Mr. Frost "who jolned the
assoclatlo '5 staff as General Councll on January 9, 1979." Other
1nfomatlo 1nd1cates he was or became a V1ce*pre51dent as well. The
actlvltles of Mr. Frost were relevant to thls lltlgatlon and cm knew 1: long
before 1: tartar! produclng documents.
cm concea ed the board of dlrectors conslderatlon of "publlc attltude
toward the chemlcal 1ndustry" 1n whlch a consultant dlscussed "flndlngs of a
deterloratd publlc attltude toward chemlcals and chemlcal manufacturers
whlch he rlated prlnclpally to concerns about health." 1cm 373357. CMA
concealed noth the exlstence and the actlvltles of 1:5 speclal commlttee on
product 11..111:y and contlnues to remaln 1n contempt the court's order that 1:
produce unedacted Copies of these documents. The same survey of MCA
members. w 1Ch showed product liability was not a problem for the chemlcal
1ndustry, as also concealed 1n prevlous documents (e.g., board mlnutes
11/21/77 3 CMA 373527. Hers, cm contlnues to conceal 1nformatlon 1n
these mm as whlch they stlpulated were not confldentlal years ago,
redactlng (even 1n 1:: most recent productmm 1nformatlon on the grounds
that portl-ns of the 1nfomatlon 1n these admlttedly noniconfldentlal
documents .re somehow "prlvlleged"; whlch, by the way, 1ncon515tent Hlth
every pre ous rullng of the court addresslng mlnutes. Not one prlvllege
clalm m: regard to meetlng mlnutes has been upheld and CMA'S contlnued
"redacted" of these documents can only be consldered 1n threat contempt of
the court's prior orders. 1cm 373977.
Conslstent Hlth 1:: prior pattern, CMA concealed that 1:, usmg
"commltme ts from 53 companles" was bankrolllng the AIHC to the tune
$1,091.00 just leadlng up to the "OSHA proposal for generlc regulatlon of
Q:\Hp51 \ ollle\37096737464
carclnoge s" (cm 373397. Mr. Barker "urged all testlmony of the hearlngs
1n the be let that 1: will add Slgnlflcally m the unpact of wrltten statements."
am has 5-111 not produced relevant reports from 1:5 Technlcal and
Functlona Commlttees 1cm 3739973997 whlch "were dlstrlbuted 1n
advance R th the tentatlve agenda" whlch, unllke, many others of the most
recent Veslons of the mlnutes (September, 19957 15 not preceded by a copy
of the ag-nda (see, for example, the agenda for the prevlous board meetlng
for 11/21 77.7 (CMA 373567. Whereas much relevant 1nfomatlon has been
found 1n .he reports of the Technlcal and Functlonal Commlttees, 1nclud1ng
some of t ese, such as Government Relatlons CommlttEE, Industrlal
Relatlons Advlsory Commlttee, Legal Advlsory Commlttee, and even the
Dccupatlo 31 Health Commlttee. The absence of these reports corresponds
mm thel dlstrlbutlon along Hlth the agenda. There 15 no reason that they
shouldn't have been produced here as well just because they were sent 1n
advance 0 the meetlng 1nstead of dlstrlbuted at the meetlng. In fact, they
are 1nco orated 1nto the mlnutes 1n the exactly the same way they are when
the repors are attached to the mlnutes. CMA has used the fact that
"summarle of recent meetlngs of the followlng commlttees were dlstrlbuted
1n advanc Hlth the tentatlve agenda" to conceal them, whlch they
apparentl have given up dolng to some extent when the documents were
actually attached" to the mlnutes, 1nstead bemg dlstrlbuted 1n advance of
them. (a 37339. Also see evldence of 51mm concealment Hlthln
11/21/77 card meetlng mlnutes at am 37350, etc.)
cm conce.led the board's approval of "contlnuatlon of a multlcomponent study of Vinyl chlorlde at the Unlverslty of Loulsvllle." 1cm
374047
"Other 11 ely recom ltems would permit deductlon of only 50% of cost
of buslne57related meals and ellmlnate deductlblllty country club dues paid
2/14/79 1 MA 1250512505 and 374057374437 7 MCA Board of Dlrectors
Meetlng M nutes.
MCA conce-led the appolntment of E. B. Frost as an MCA Vice
Presldent "Mr. Drlver's appolntment of Mr. Frost (General aounmly as a Vice
Presldent of the assoclatlon was approved." 1cm 374077. cm concealed
the Spec1.l Revlew Commlttee report and all references to the report 1cm
37407403 and Exhibit B: CMA 374157374397 "on three prior occaslon51957, 1952, and 1959, Board level examlnatlons of the objectlves,
structure and program of the Assoclatlon have been conducted by fomal
study to .5515: MCA'S fltness and perfomance mm respect to servlces and
effectlve actlon on 1ndustr1es behalf..." 1cm 374157.
Q:\Hp51 \ ollle\37096737464
Dbservatl-ns 1ncluded that "because overwhelmlng leglslatlve,
regulato , and soclety pressures, MCA staff backup, partlcularly for the
Technlca and Functlonal Commlttee work, 1: often hampered by lack of
declslve esponslveness and tlmely support." 1cm 374157.
"Althoug 1n some 1nstances there 15 a speclflc need [emphasls
applied] for revlew by councll, there 15 a tendency to request councll m
revlew a d make recommendatlons rather than flrst develop technlcal
1nfon’nat on [emphasls applled] and recommend posltlons for presentatlon to
an agenc or leglslatlve body, resultlng 1n delay of needed evaluatlon." 1cm
374167 .
There 15 reference to the strong feellngs "some members of the MCA"
have abo t "a more aggresslve advocacy role" for thls CMA "especlally
regardln- regulatlon and questlons." 1cm 374157.
cm concaled the changes 1n 1:: commlttee structure effectlve
5/1/79, man, 15 accompllshed, consolldated the prevlous Alr Quallty, Solid
Waste Ma agement, and Water Resources Commlttees 1nto a new
"Envlron ental Management Commlttee; Labels and Precautlonary
Infomat on. Dccupatlonal Health, Safety and Fire Protectlon Commlttees
consolld.ted 1nto a smgle Dccupatlonal and Health Commlttee; and Chemlcal
Packagln, Transportatlon and Dlstrlbutlon, Transportatlon Equlpment
Commlttes, consolldated 1nto a smgle "Dlstrlbutlon" commlttee. The
dlssolut on of the "Publlc Relatlons" and "Educatlon Actlvltles" commlttees,
mm the r prevlous functlons to be conducted " Within staff on a
malntena Ce basls and mm Executlve Commlttee for speclal PR projects..."
as well 5 the dlssolutlon of the "Legal Advlsory" Commlttee whlch,
Slmllarl , would "contlnue through MCA 1n House General Councll and
deslgnatd Executlve Commlttee Member's corporate staffs. The Industrlal
Relatlon Advlsory Commlttee was dlscontlnued and the Plastlcs Commlttee
was flnaly dlscontlnued. 1cm 374197. Especlally, conslderlng the courts
longiexp essed deslre that am, and other defendants, provlde thelr
1nfomaton. primarily, of productlon of documents, CMA has conslstently
conceals thls sort of relevant. almost essentlal 1nfomatlon relatlng to 1::
cm comttee structure and operatlon. 1cm 3741774197.
All Tech leal and Functlonal Commlttees appolntments, 1nclud1ng the
chalman go through the Executlve Commlttee, on the recommendatlon of
the pres dent. From the Executlve Commlttee, each Technlcal and Functlonal
Commltte- appolntment goes to the Board for ratification. 1cm 374197.
cm con -aled that the CMA Vinyl panels membershlp whlch often
exceeds "flfteen 1n number" was agalnst the general rule and must have
Q:\Hp51\ 91119370957374“
been de ermlned by the Executlve Commlttee m be an advlsable exceptlon.
"Th1: 5—y5 that the tem of 1nd1v1dual commlttee members was to be
llmlted to three years! 1cm 374197. mm onsithlrd of the membershlp
rotated annually." 1cm 374197.
Desplte the clarlty of plalntlffs allegatlons and the clear relevance of
MCA mod flcatlon of 1:5 "advocacy role" as a result of board actlon to allow
1ncreasd adequacy on TSCA, (am 37420 and 374227, these documents
clearly show CMA'S 1ntentlon to step up 1:: advocacy efforts. "MCA should
take an actlve role 1n 1mplantatlon process of TSCA whlch EPA was to
shortly undertake. cm concealed mm: was, whlch monltored CMA'S
Technlc.l Commlttees. was created "1n furtherance of this [advocacy] role."
("Furthrance of thls rolE. a newly constltuted Chemlcal Regulatlons Advlsory
Commltt-e [ammm 15 m be prlmarlly concerned mm the development of
regulat ons 1mplant1ng TSCA" and to "55515:" EPA 1n 1:: 1mplementatlon of
TSCA.
Althoug MCA clalms to stand by 1:: prevlous "pollcy" (followed only
when 1: sulted them to avold "questlons 1nvolv1ng a partlcular... chemlcal
substane." thlngs have changed now and: "Nevertheless, should a
proposew regulatlon 1nvolve a precedentisettlng or nrstqmpressmn prlnclple,
or for nther speclal reasons, may be 1mportant for MCA to take a posltlon."
MCA con salad 1:: offlclal posltlon that "MCA advocacy does not
restrlc the 1ndependence of MCA member companles," whlch 15 relevant
because 1: 15 a he. MCA advocacy does, 1n fact, restrlct the 1ndependence
of MCA ember companles and documents produced 1n thls case prove 1:.
The CMA concealed 1:: reference to the "sharp rebuke" whlch the
house " anded the admlnlstratlbn, Ralph Nader, and Congresslonal
leaders 1p" by Votlng down the proposed Consumer Protectlon Agencles 13111
whlch w-uld create a separate department of consumer advocacy 1n
proceenngs before other agencles, and empowered to appeal agency
regulat-ry declslons. 1cm 374257. Th1: mu had been before Congress 1n
one to or another for eight years. A 51mm mu passed the House durlng
the F0 - admlnlstratlon by 344 m 44. The reason for thls "turnaround" 15
stated to have been " the masslve lobbylng effort 1n opposltlon whlch was
mounts by the busmess communlty" as well as "evldence of a backilash
resent ent agalnst Ralph Nader and ms tactlcs, whereln he was sharply
crltlc.l of Congressmen who are undeclded, and especlally so when they
happend to be former allles." 1cm 374267.
o:\wps \Mollle\37096*37464
am so sealed the relevant actlvltles of the end of the exlstence of
1:5 "L-glslatlve Communlcatlon Programs," 1nclud1ng the reference to the
survey of 107 respondlng companles showlng 2,331,079 employees,
4,599, 39 stock holders, 391,013 retlrees, etc., (CMA 374317 and
dlscuses "speclflc efforts" to Varlous employers were made or weren't
maklng "m 1nform employees, stockholders, and retlrees about pendlng
leglsl-tlve lssues and the potentlal 1mpact on the company." 1cm 374327.
Lobbyl g actlvltles are descrlbed 1n great detall 1cm 3742974397, 1nclud1ng
refers ass to company organlzatlon of PAC'S, "computer data banks or other
retrle 51 systems whlch mlght be useful tools 1n grass root communlcatlon
progra 5...," etc. 1cm 374387. cm concealed 1:: staff report 1cm
374407437, 1nclud1ng the presldent's havlng wrltten OSHA that the
"propo ed OSHA standard on the identification of chemlcal substances
would lace thls 1ncred1ble burden on all v.5. 1ndustry and the v.5. publlc."
cm L;— e EPA prellmlnary 1nfomatlon from Foster u. Snell, the study
of th emlsslons from facllltles produclng or usmg benzene, whlch 15 reported
to ha a been "approxlmately onsihalf of those reported to the Advlsory
Comml tee 1n the Stanford Research Instltute study." 1cm 374417.
"The ulde for the Preparatlon of Safety Data Sheets 15 now avaliable
1n 3 EH edition, 1:: Sixth revlslon," desplte the relevance of snrsa to
plalnlffs allegatlons and dlscovery, subpoenas, etc. All Copies of thls Gulde
and a 1 references to 1: were concealed by cm. 1cm 374427.
Consl-tent Hlth prior practlce, cm concealed 1nfomatlon showlng
that he AIHC was the chlld of 1ndustry and that 1:: "proposed 'alternatlves'
concemng regulatlon of carclnogens appear to be recelvlng serlous
consleratlon..." by OSHA and labor. 1cm 374097.
cm h.s agaln concealed the reports of the Technlcal and Functlonal
Comml tees whlch "were dlstrlbuted 1n advance of the tentatlve agenda..."
3/15/9 7 (cm 1250712509 and 374457374547 7 MCA Board
Meetl g Mlnutes.
Consltent Hlth 1:: prior practlces, CMA concealed 1:5 dlscusslon of
the IHC and 1:: large budget: "Drlglnally AlHC's puzposed solely to the
OSHA roposal for generlc regulatlons carclnogen. A poll of 1:5 supportlng
comp.n1es has approved broadlng the scope to apply to carclnogens 1n the
work lace whlch regulatory body 15 1nvolved." (Amended 4/11/79 replaclng
the brass "carclnogen 1n the work place" mm "generlc cancer pollc1e5."7
D:\wsl \Mollle\37096*37464
cm oncealed the report of 1:: Government Relatlons Commlttee
(am 37447 and 3745474607, 1nclud1ng dlscusslon of the "Chemlcal Injury
Inde 1ty Program" dlscussed at the TSCA hearlngs and MCA appearances
on p-nels, etc.
cm oncealed 1:: staff report 1cm 3745174547 dlscusslng MCA'S
appe-rance at hearlngs on the proposed generlc carclnogen regulatlons,
cm oncealed references to any: havlng developed TSCA
workhops 1cm 374537, CMA'S 1nterventlon 1n the API'S appeal of the
05 A benzene standard 1cm 374527.
cm concealed 1:: reference to 1:5 submlsslon of "a flnal report of an
eplemlologlcal study of the mortallty of workers and workers employed 1n
the productlon of Vinyl chlorlde and 1:5 polymers. The report covers the
1nV-st1gatlons from June 15, 1973 through December, 1977. The research
covrs 10,173 workers from 37 plants and the contractor 1nd1cated that
am concealed 1:: support of a "tax*exempt organlzatlon" called the
Ame lean Councll on Sclence and Health founded by Dr. Ellzabeth M.
Whe-lan, "author of 'Panlc 1n the Pantry' and other books whlch take a
re. oned approach to chemlcals and m be rlsk/beneflt concept..." The
SC entlsts at ACSH "flfteen at present, are deeply concerned that emotlon 15
relaclng sclence 1n governmental and publlc declslons and are pledged to
spak out when fallacy or emotlon replaces fact 1n thelr speclaltles. ACSH 15
be my pmched for funds, but 1n the 1nterest of 1ndependence and credlblllty
Hll not accept support from any chemlcal company or any company 1n
w 1ch could even remotely be concerned mm the aims of the councll."
Hnwever, cm concealed that Dr. Wheelan "would be happy to hear from
y-u" 15 "you are [a member of the board of dlrectors of the Chemlcal
anufacturers Assoclatlon] 1nterested 1n the work of the councll and know of
955mm sources of funds, such as foundatlons..." 1cm 374547.
l:\wp51 \Mollle\37096*37464
I
Exhlblt =
Report .. the Penslon Commlttee
to the
Board on Dlrectors
Novembe 22, 1975
Pursuan to 1:5 responslblllty concernlng non"salary beneflts for
the Ass-clatlon's staff, the Penslon Commlttee recommends approval of
the fol owlng:
m Adj atmeht of Penslon Payments to Retlrees
Two yea:
ago, wh-n the Penslon Plan was revlsefi, the prlnclple of perlodlc adjust?
ment of penslon payments to past retlrees 1n recognltlon of 1ncreased
cost of llvlng was accepted.
Since t en. penslon payments to comer Federal employees
have 1nreased by nearly 19%, of whlch 15% was occasloned by rlse 1n the
Consume Price Index.
1: 15 p oposed m 1ncrease penslon payments by 4% per year
1n retl ement Since 12/1/74, the date of the only prior adjustment. Th1:
would aount m n for the Elva retlrees and one survlvlng spouse who
were thn recelvlng beneflts, and lesser percentages for the Elva employees
who rat red between 4/1/75 and 10/1/75.
The amo tlzed annual cost of the proposed adjustment approxy
127 Ter Life Insurance Coverage for Future Retlrees
For
employes, MCA now provldes tam 115a 1n5urance coverage of two tunes
annual alary, but no contlnuatlon 1n retlrement. The optlon to convert
at pers-nal expense 1: unattractlve because of the high cost of attalnediage
premlum. Contlnuatlon 15 not uncommOn, however. but usually on a re*
duced a d decllnlng scale.
1: 15 . oposed m provlde tam 115a 1n5urance for members of
the 5:.55 retlrlng from MCA on or after December 1, 1975 as follows,
deslgned for famlly protectlon rather than as an estate factor:
For an MCA retlree who completed seven years
of ser me, of whlch at least Elva durlng the tenyEAr perlod 1mmedlately precedlng retlrement
were c-ntlnuous, and who...has legal dependents
at dea n:
Amount equal to flnal annual salary, subject
to a m mmum of $10, nun and a maxlmum of
$25, DD for the flrst two years 1n retlrement;
cm n: 105
c
2
Amount equal m 50% of flnal salary, subject
to a m mmum of $5, nun and a maxlmum of
$12.50, for the thlrd. fourth. and new years
1n rat rement; and
52, BM after the new year 1n retlrement.
For an other MCA retlree who completed three years
of ser lee and who has legal dependents at death:
Amount equal m 50% of flnal salary subject to
for th flrst Elva years 1n retlrement; and
52, an after the new year 1n retlrement.
For an other MCA retlree:
At the maxlmum beneflt level 1525, nun flrst two yearsy and at
curre rate quotatlons, the peak cost of about 51,235 per 1nd1v1dual would
occur n the second year of retlrement (age 667. Overall cost from age as
throu age 79 would total about 55, 500.
MCA h.s Elva employees whose normal retlrement dates occur
betwen Aprll 1977 and November 1931. Assumlng all at the maxlmum
benef t level. annual cost would begln at about 51,150 1n the current year
' and bulld to about $4, nun 1n flscal year 1991792.
137 ?.rtlal Substltutlon of Drdlnary Life for Term Life Insurance
The cmst of life 1n5urance provlded m an employee 1n excess of $50, nun
cover.ge 15 supplemental 1ncome taxable m the employee. At hlgher salary
level. the two*t1mes*salary term life 1nsurance beneflt provlded by MCA
imposs a conslderable tax outlay.
IKS a lows for a comblnatlon of tem and ordlnary 115a 1n5urance
under whlch the 1nsurance company allocates the premlum between the two.
The 1 uted cost of any excess above $50, nun term plus the cost of the
ordln.ry life 15 taxable 1ncome m the 1nd1v1dual. Advantage lles 1n 3 level
preml for the ordlnary 115a portlon at the startlng age. maklng 1: more
attra tlve for personal contlnuatlon on retlrement, plus the accumulatlon
of c. h value.
1: 15 proposed to dlvlde the coverage equally between ordlnary
115a and tem for employees at or above the $35, nun salary level, namely,
cont nue mm one tunes salary of tem and substltute the second one tlm s
am 37107
salay mm ordlnary 115a. The estlmated aggregate of 1ncreased cost to
the -everal employees that would quallfy ”a: thelr current salary levels 715 about 59,900 m the time of retlrement, whereas the aggregate cash value
of t elr pollcles at retlrement would be about $51,500, contrastlng mm no
Valu- at all from tam 1nsurance at whatever level.
The .dded cost to MCA 1n the current year would approach
55, mm. dropplng to less than 54. nun after retlrement of the flrst employee
who ould quallfy.
147 'eductlon of Quallflcatlons for Tenn Life Insurance Coverage
For -rly, there was a llnkage 1n the fundlng of the penslon plan and group
tar 115a 1nsurance. thus maklng 1: loglcal to set the same age and servlce
qua 1E1Catlon5 for enrollment. Concurrent Hlth the revlslon of the penslon
pla two years ago, however, the fundlng arrangements of the two were
sep.rated and became 1ndependent of one another.
wm e 1: 15 legal for an age requlrement m be stlpulated as belng
the same as for penslon coverage, as MCA now does, 1: has been learned 1:
woud be lllegal m speclfy an age llmltatlon as such. 1: 15 proposed :9
e11 1nate the age requlrement (now 25 yearsy rather than retaln 1: on a
tea nlcallty.
Also. the present requlrement of one year of servlce 15 an un*
us ally long quallflcatlon perlod, one to three months bemg more common.
1: 15 proposed to lower the requlrement to three months, thls bemg the
*prlod now 1n effect to quallfy for MCA'S medlcal beneflts.
Th cost of these changes would be minimal. There are relatlve*
ly few below age 25 on the staff, premlum rates for the young are low, and
t elr 1ncluslon has an offsettlng effect of lowerlng the average age of the
cnvered group. The cost of the reduced servlce requlrement would be
m-dest. also. conslderlng the low turnover rate among hlghisalarled emf
. oyees.
CA
MA 037an
Exhibit F
upon y THE ummmn 017 GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
WILLIAM M. STDVER
NDV‘EM‘BE 22,
1975
.AW/stt :5 LEFT UNFINISHED BUSINESS
The Sec-nd Sesslon of the 94th Congress came to an end 1n the
early m-rnlng hours of October 2, 1:5 259 day duratlon maklng 1: the
second hortest Congresslonal sesslon Since 1950. of the more than
20,000 1115 1ntroduced, only about 450 survlved m flnal enactment.
Flfteen mm: were vetoed. and four Vetoes were overrldden.
Durlng
the Sec-nd Sesslon the Senate took 599 recorded Votes and the House
551, th total of 1,349 belng a new record.
Amld th frantlc flurry of lastimlnute actlvlty,
Erllls .5 significance were moved on toward enactment,
Congres also left behlnd some unflnlshed busmess 1n
mu: m: completed, mus whlch are sure to reappear
one to or another.
a numbe of
but the 94th
the to of
next ye.r 1n
Among t e unportant new laws wrltten durlng the closmg days
were:
7 The T-xlc Substances Control ACt (PL 9474597, flnally became
law aftr Elva years of dellberatlon and controversy, thus
establlhlng Federal controls over the manufacture, dlstrlbutlon
and use of chemlcals.
7 Antlt ust Enforcement (pl 9474357, survlved two Senate 51117
busters and lastidltch House opposltlon; authorlzes states
attorne 5 general to brlng class actlon type sluts on behalf
of Cltlensi requlres large companles m notlfy government
of plan ed mergers; strengthens Federal antltrust 1nvest1gatory
powers.
k
v
7 Tax vaslon (PL 944557. was the product of three years work
but Eel far short of reforms promlsed by Democratlc congresslonal leaders; plans for major overhaul of taxatlon of v.5.
multlna lonal corporatlons were dropped from the b111, whlch
1n Elna fom extended the 1nvestment tax credlt for another
four ye-rs, 1ncreased the minimum tax for busmess and altered
somewha the rules for corporate forelgn tax credlts.
CMAD3712
2
expands Federal and state programs
mm ne authorlzatlons and powers for EPA, a Federal regulatory
program for hazardous wastes. a ban on open dumplng Hlthln Elva
years. .nd authorlzatlons for state and local solld waste
managemnt and research programs.
However electloniyear jltters, Veto threats, 1nternal squabble:
and the pressure of an abbrevlated Congresslonal sesslon comblned to
forestal enactment of a number of other proposals Vlrtually all
of whlc are llkely to surface again.
These 1 elude:
7 A ml: to provlde strlcter regulatlon of lobbylng, whlch riled
amld lat mlnute parllamentary manueverlng as Congress ad?
journed' Common Cause 1: a strong advocate, whlle Nader groups
and the AFL7CID supported only the House Verslon; busmess
15 appr-henslve over the prospect of heavler recordikeeplng
and rep-rtlng requlrements; dues paid to trade assoclatlons by
corpora a members could be subject to publlc dlsclosure under
some so cepts.
c
7 Clean Alr Amendments fell Vlctlm to a Senate flllbuster as the
Sesslon ended; Senator Muskle has blamed the auto 1ndustry for
kllllng the measure and may reslst efforts for qulck actlon on
a stret hiout or relaxatlon of strlct moblle emlsslon standards
set :9 aka effect 1n 1979; the scicalled nonfattalnment and
nonidegedatlon lssues were also mghly controverslal and sure
to be h-tly debated 1n the next Congress.
7 Water Pollutlon leglslatlon riled 1n conference; chlef lssues
were dares of control over the natlon's wetlands. expanded
state . thorlty 1n developmg wastewater treatment facllltles
and del.y of m1d71977 water quallty deadllnes for munlclpalltles.
The 95: Congress 1: expected to take a thorough look at the
entlre ederal Water Pollutlon Control ACt, usmg as a startlng
polnt t a report of the Presldent's Commlsslon on Water Quallty.
7 Natu .1 Gas Deregulatlon leglslatlon defled attempts to 61nd a
Vlable ompromlse although both the House and Senate passed
Verslo _ of the blll; no conference was held and the mus
riled. t ereby contlnulng the current artlflclally low regulated
prices, and thus dlscouraglng new exploratlon and productlon.
7 1ndus r131 Reorganlzatlon, the scicalled Hart b111, never got
beyond he early hearlng stages; 1:: chlef sponsor, Michigan
Senato thp A. Hart, 15 retlrlng; the measure smgles out
chemlc. s manufacturlng and other 1ndustr1es for posslble break?
up, cre.tes a speclal commlsslon to make dlvestlture investk
gatlons and a speclal court to compel dlsmantllng.
CMA 037-13
I
3
, petr- sum Elvestlture leglslatlon would have requlred major
011 Go anles to separate 1nto smgle operatlons for productlon, rehmngmarkemng, and transportatlon; another mu
would .Ve forced "horlzontal" dlvestlture, thus keeplng oll
companl-s out of other energy source 1nterests (m though the
"Vert1.l" mu cleared a Senate commlttee 1: was never taken
up on t a floor.
7 cozp- ate Charterlng leglslatlon falled to make much headway,
but so d arlse again; overslght hearlngs were held 1n the
Senate ommerce Commlttee; one concept would requlre a Federal
charts of cozporatlons, mm annual reportlng on the makeup
of the noard of dlrectors, product llne sales and Votlng stock
owners p.
Among a numerous other mus whlch falled m achleve Congresslonal
Dr pre dentlal approval were these:
strlct ontrols over strlpimlnlng;
land u—- controls;
the on awlng of corporate brlbes m forelgn offlclals;
common 1tus plcketlng 1n the constructlon 1ndustry;
propos. s to create a consumer protectlon agency;
expand. powers and investigative authorlty for the Federal
Trade I-mmlsslon.
CARTER mmrsnmnou pnmmzms TO TAKE OFFICE
vsmg at pollster Lou Harrls called "the old Roosevelt coalltlon"
as the nackbone of ms campalgn. Governor Jlmmy Carter of Georgla
has benme presldentielect, and 15 now hard at work on the masslve task
of org.111ng ms Admlnlstratlon.
Recent days have seen Mr. Carter
closet-d mm such Ford Admlnlstratlon notables as George Bush (for
3 Sean 1ty brleflng) and Henry Klsslnger (to talk forelgn assausy,
and at 3:30 thls afternoon he 1: 1n personal conference Hlth Presldent
Ford :- dlscuss the transltlon of the Government.
Washln on bureaucrats. polltlclans and dlplomats are glvlng
Mr. ca er close scrutlny, perhaps motlvated by uneaslness and
uncert.1nty as much as by mere curloslty. After all, Jlmmy Carter has
run as an antliestabllshment candldate for nearly two years.
He has
crltlc zed both the form and substance of government 1n Washlngton,
\s Vow-d sweeplng reforms and new programs, has fought bltter campalgn
...&tl-s mm recognlzed leaders of his own party. ' However, on electlon
":Bht a made a qulck transltlon from crltlc on the outslde to manager
n the nslde.
Jlmmy larter now IS the establlshment.
ﬁe
CMA 03 114
And th-refore he 15 now confronted Hlth a dllemma of some dellcacy,
how to begln m threat and m motlvate the people and the mechanlsms
he has so recently and soundly castlgated.
He mus- 61nd and appoint
cablne- heads and offlceholders mm the capaclty to make the machlnery
of goV-rnment work, and thls would seem to 1nd1cate a need for expert
enced ersonnel; but at the same time he must avold the appearance
of mak ng ms appolntments from the 115:: of known polltlcal flgures
and paty professlonals. He needs new faces, but he also needs the
rellab llty and depth of background that only experlence can provlde.
There .re Signs that a number of Carter appolntments may be
reveald relatlvely soon, so that incoming offlclals Will have maxlmum
tune fr plannlng and coordlnatlon Hlth departlng offlclals of the
Ford A 1n15tratlon.
Observrs around the world will be carefully
watchl g these appolntments for clues to the attltudes of the Carter
Admlnl-tratlon, the 1nfluence bemg wlelded by Varlous 1nterest groups
and poeribrokers, and for 1nd1catlons as m the polltlcal "15de of
the Prsldentielect hlmself.
Among he most dellcate tasks confrontlng Mr. Carter, and one he
appear to recognlze clearly as such, 15 the establlshlng of Communica*
tlons 1nks Hlth and hopefully some measure of control over the
Congres.
Hls reent meetlng mm 15 Democratlc Congresslonal leaders
last wek at the famiestate of Georgla Senator Herman Talmadge was
surely an effort to hold out the ollve branch and to begln m bulld
suppor for key programs.
The dlcusslons were reportedly broad 1n
nature touchlng on matters relatlng to the strength of the economy
and're-rganlzatlon of Government.
Some osarvers behave, however. that the new Presldent may
encoun er conslderable dlfflculty mm the Congress, desplte the
fact t at both ends of Pennsylvanla Avenue are now flmly 1n
Democr.t1c hands. They reason 1: thls way: Congresslonal leaders
and Co lttee chalrmen, whlle Crltlclzlng the "stalemate government"
of Preldents leon and Ford. have obvlously enjoyed the 1ndepeni
dense -nd status whlch the years of confrontatlon have produced.
They
have h.d an unportant role 1n punishing one Presldent and 1n maklng
ms su cessor appear 1neffectual, and are therefore llkely m covet
thelr ndependence of actlon.
Moreovr. mils and programs delayed
by attntlon m Watergate or stalled by Ford Vetoes are already 1n
falrly pollshed form, and are not llkely to be dropped readlly by
thelr ponsors 1n favor of Carter alternatlves.
Yet an-ther factor
will b the attltude of the Whlte House 1tself, and longitlme Carter
watches polnt out that he adopted a tough, no compromlse attltude
toward the Georgla leglslature durlng ms tam as Governor.
CMAD37I15
5
MEW PR 51mm AND HIS vmws
Much o offlclal Washlngton 15 now speculatlng on the future
sectlo s of pollcy and programs 1n the Carter Admlnlstratlon.
HoWeVe, from speeches and statements by the Presldentielect, and
from t e Democratlc Party Platform 1tself 1: 15 posslble to reach
some p ellmlnary judgments.
mm r-spect m the economy. Governor Carter appears flmly 1n
favor .5 creatlng more jobs and provldlng stlmulus m the natlonal
econo . The prospect of a onsishot tax cut 15 bemg serlously
dlscus ed. The fomatlon of a natlonal youth corp to hlre and traln
young eople from urban areas 15 another Carter 51m, and 15 conslstent
mm . 5 support for threat job creatlon Hlth emphasls on publlc
servl - employment. He also favors moderate 1nterest rates, contlnued
suppo of 1nvestment credlts, strong antktrus: enforcement and a
stren henlng of the Councll on Wage and price Stablllty.
Tax r-form.
thong a popular toplc at the campalgn podlum, Will take conslderably
longs to accompllsh.
The e Vlronment Hill recelve hlgh prlorlty 1n the Carter Admlnlsatlon. The incoming presldent has opposed extendlng the compllance
feadl has for automoblle exhaust emlsslons and would apparently retaln
the p esent nonidegredatlon concepts of the Clean Alr Act.
Ha ha
calls, for strlct enforcement of water pollutlon control laws and
evlde tly will oppose efforts to weaken the Federal Water Pollutlon
Contr-l Act.
He suports strlct controls over strip mnmg.
m
Natlo 31 energy pollcles may undergo some changes under Presldent
Carts mm greater emphasls on energy conservatlon, and a strengthenlng
of en 1ronmental controls over energy productlon. He plans to deemphaslze nuclear development and to requlre strlcter regulatlon 1n
constuctlon of new nuclear power plants.
He ev dently will push for
1ncre.sed rellance on domestlc coal from the deep mnes of Appalachla
and wuld oppose heavy development of strlpimlned coal resources 1n
the W-stern Unlted States. He opposes further expanslon of Western
coal? easlng and supports strong state partlclpatlon 1n offshore oll
lease declslons.
He Ho ld favor mandatory mlleage standards for
automblles Hlth economlc penaltles on those Hlth less fuel efflclency.
He oposes Federal subsldles for synthetlc fuel productlon.
ME 953 coumss;
NEW FCES. NEW LEADERS. SAME VOTE muss
When -he smoke of electlon day had cleared, the new Congress
koked almost exactly llke the old one th Senate will agaln be
mposd of 52 Democrats and 39 Republlcans, and the House shows a
shlft m the Democrats of only two seats, the new ratlo belng 2927143
1n th 1r favor.
CMA n 7115
a
on clmser inspection, however, the changes will be both numerous
and s gnlflcant: Vlrtually the entlre leadershlp mm change 1n both
House and 1n both partles; there 15 a substantlal crop of "freshmen",
espec ally 1n the Senate; there Will be many shlfts 1n key commlttee
resposlbllltles; there 15 talk of major commlttee reallgnment 1n the
Sena: .
The H-use Hill organlze 1tself 1n early December, 1n that Members
will we named to commlttees, new chalrmen Will be elected and changes
1n Hose rules and commlttee jurlsdlctlons Will be consldered. Not
untll the 95th Congress convenes 1n January, however, will subcommlttee
5551:; ments be made, commlttee rules consldered or leadershlp posltlons
Voted on.
There are 57 new House Members. 47 Democrats and 20 Republlcans.
Overs 1, the electlon produced overwhelmlng success for 1ncumbents
mm -5 percent of those runnlng belng returned to offlce.
The
stron raielectlon rate held true for the 79 scicalled "Watergate
ﬁres en", those Democratlc Congressmen flrst elected 1n the offyear
el at on of 1974. Desplte high Republlcan hopes agalnst that group,
79 ra for raielectlon and 75 won.
There Will be a number of unportant changes 1n the chalmanshlps
of Ho 5e commlttees and subcommltteeS, 29 1n all, 1nclud1ng new
Chal en for the followlng:
7 Bunet Commlttee (commlttee 2*year rotatlon rule)
7 The Interlor Commlttee (jurisdiction 1ncludes energy matters,
mm 7
7 In -rnatlonal Relatlons Commlttee (forelgn assausy
7 Mechant Marlne and Fisherles (merchant marlne matters.
ocea ography, coastal zone management)
7 Po-t Offlce Commlttee (the postal system
7 Pulls works and Transportatlon Commlttee (water pollutlon
contol, most transportatlon matters)
7 Ru es Commlttee (clearance of leglslatlon for House floor
debaue7
Anoter development worthy of mentlon 15 the fact that there are
save Vacancles to be filled on the House Ways and Means Commlttee
wherln taxatlon and trade leglslatlon are wrltten.
CMA 37117
I
7
The .enate Will also undergo some 1nterest1ng changes.
Incu nents
dldn't fare as well as thelr House colleagues mm only 15 of the 25
Sena ors runnlng bemg returned.
The .4 percent raielectlon rate for
1nc nents was the lowest 1n the hlstory of threat Senate electlons.
The - Will be 19 freshman Senators. countlng Governor Wendell Anderson,
who 111 replace Vice Presldentielect Mondale.
Ten are Democrats and
en; t Republlcans.
Thre commlttee chalrmen were defeated: Hartke (Veterans Affair57:
Mos (Aeronautlcs and Spacey, and McGee (Post Offlce and awn Servmey.
Thee Will be conslderable change 1n the membershlps of several
Semte Commlttees. 1nclud1ng Commerce, where there are 7 Vacancles
m a filled. Flnance 14 vacanmesy and Judlclary 15 vacanmesy.
A c rther unknown 1n the Senate 15 whether or not reorganlzatlon
Hll‘ brlng a Significant shlft 1n commlttee jurlsdlctlons and responi
Silllltles. A reorganlzatlon proposal 1n the form of a Senate
Re-olutlon has been drafted by the Commlttee on Commlttees headed by
Seator Adlal E. Stevenson. Jr. (DrlllJ, and could be taken up early
1n 1977. The resolutlon presents a number of alternatlves for
co slderatlon and could eventually lead to ellmlnatlon of some
a. ‘ lttees, and the shlftlng of 1mportant envlronmental and energy
rsponslbllltles.
u A 037119
Exmm: G
upon TO BE BOARD 0F ummmns
MANUFACTU'RNG CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
JOSEPH SANIFDRD. JR., CHAIRMAN
CHEMICAL panama COMMITTEE
NOVEMBER 2.
1975
The actlvl 1a: of the Chemlcal Packaglng Commlttee
emphaslze Ho major areas 7 regulatlons and leglslatlon.
Our
objectlve oday 15 to provlde background on our Commlttee operi
atlons and how we are asslstlng each of our companles m achleve
both safet 1n packaglng and regulatory compllance.
Tunes have changed!
Just a is years ago, a chemlcal
packaglng -ng1neer mlght be concentratlng on the steel thlckness
of a drum for solvents. the molsture barrler 1n 3 bag for plastlc
reslns, o a funglclde box closure.
Today, he us: also know
about the Transportatlon Safety Act of 1974, the consolldatlon
of DDT reulatlons. the .Metrlc Converslon Act of 1975, 1nteri
natlonal hipplng regulatlons, and, looklng m the future, regi
ulatlons -n solld waste dlsposal and carclnogens.
What has aused thls change 1n our Commlttee's acmw
ities? We belleve the most 1mportant factor 15 the concern on
the part .5 both the prlvate and publlc sectors for greater
safety 1n the packaglng, transportatlon and dlstrlbutlon of haz*
ardous malerlals.
The Depar-ment of Transportatlon's past two
annual reorts on hazardous materlals control are more speclflc
about :m- concern over safety.
In these Iwo years, 59 fatalltles
and over .500 injuries occurred 1n all hazardous materlals
1nc1dents of whlch over 50% 1nvolved chemlcal products.
The De*
partment c Transportatlon, or as we usually say "DDT", also
115:: the ten worst accldents for each year? 70% of these mi
valved ch-mlcal 1ndustry products Hlth a total of nlne fatalltles
and 340 p ople 1njured.
1: 15 for reasons llke thls that the
Commlttee s actlvltles emphaslze regulatlons and leglslatlon.
The major leglslatlve act affectlng our actlvltles
15 the Tr.nsportatlon Safety Act of 1974, passed by Congress
1n early 975.
Key polnt 1nclude:
The n par men: of Transportatlon's authorlty 15
extended 0 regulate package unloadlng, certaln
types of torage and shlpment routlng.
CMA 03711
Procedure for obtalnlng package exemptlons are
made much more complex.
DDT autho 1ty 15 extended to Contalner manufacturers
and even 0 commodltles not presently deflned as
hazardous
Crlmlnal .5 well as clvll penaltles can be 1mposed
for Viola lons Hlth 1mprlsonment for up to Elva
years now 1ncluded.
In the reulatory Eleld, DDT has just lssued 1::
complete onsolldatlon of Tltle 49 of the Code of Federal
Regulatl- s whlch contalns the regulatlons governlng the trans*
portatlo and packaglng of hazardous materlals.
Th1: doc ent
has been nler four years 1n preparatlon and 1ncozporates many
regulato ; changes affectlng the use, labellng, marklng and
shlpment of chemlcal packages.
The Metr c Converslon Act has been enacted 1nto law;
1: creat-s a metrlc board to oversee Voluntary converslon 1n the
Unlted Slates.
We belle e metrlcatlon Hill 1n1tlally affect our
export p.ckag1ng Hlth domestlc packages golng metrlc over the
next ten years.
Our llal'on mm Canadlan MCA member companles
7 15 pro 1d1ng Valuable 1nput based on thelr experlence 1n metrlc
conversln.
Export 5 1pment5 requlre 1ndustry packaglng personnel
to be aw.re of Unlted Natlons and xMco regulatlons and approprlate
r511 and truck regulatlons 1n the Varlous countrles m whlch we
Ship.
The regu atlons of mm, or more properly the Intergoverni
mental M.r1t1me Consultatlve Drganlzatlon, are contalned 1n an
elghtivo ume set coverlng water movement of hazardous materlals.
591m Hate dlsposal leglslatlon recently enacted
has not .ffected packaglng.
However. leglslatlon proposed but
not passd, would have 1mposed a fee on packaglng materlals
that are not reusable or recyclable.
Regulatl-ns and leglslatlon whlle deeply 1nvolved mm
safety a so have an economc effect on packaglng.
DDT recD-nlzes
thls to = degree and has 1ntroduced the term "cost/beneflt" m be
conslderd 1n any revlews of package regulatlon changes.
Packagln
15 a 51:; lflcant cost ltem 1n our 1ndustry.
The chemcal 1ndustry
uses ova 50 million new and recondltloned steel and flbre drums
annually at a cost of about 5500 mllllon.
The 1ndu try uses
about 5e en bllllon square feet of corrugated flbreboard 1n boxes
to hold -ur plastlcs, agrlcultural chemlcals and aclds at an
CMADB712D
annual 05: of $300 million.
We use some sun mllllon bags and
15 mm on pallets a year.
The tot.l annual cost of packaglng
materla 5 1n our 1ndustry approaches 51.5 bllllon or about 2%
of sale.
Perhaps of equal unportance from a solld waste dlsposal
standpo nt, thls represents 1n the range of one bllllon pounds
of stee , one and a half bllllon pounds of paperboard and 750
mllllon pounds of wood.
The age :13: and organlzatlon of the Commlttee's task
groups .nd subcommlttees reflect our concern over regulatlons
and leg slatlon.
A few e ample: lllustrate the posltlve actlon
we are aklng to 55515: our 1ndustry.
First, a recently formed a new regulatlons and leglsi
latlon ubcommlttee to control all of our actlvltles 1n thls
area sun as metrlcatlon. definitions of hazardous materlals.
liaison mm DDT and our actlvltles on the 1ntercomm1ttee group
on 1nte natlonal regulatlons.
Our Met leatlon Task Group coordlnates Commlttee
actlvlt Hlth initial efforts emphaslzlng proper 1ncluslon of
m trlca lon 1n DDT regulatlons, and coordlnatlon of dlfferences
1n expo t and domestlc regulatlons.
The Smal Packages Subcommlttee 15 developmg a tech?
nlcal b lletln on proper packaglng and transportatlon of samples
and small quantltles.
A task roup has developed technlcal bulletlns on
proper echnlques for loadlng, braclng and blocklng 1n truck,
r511 c. and plggyback shlpments.
DDT re latlons requlre
safe 1.3mm; but don't really speclfy effectlve technlques.
A newl proposed hazardous materlals regulatlon spec*
lfled Iestlng requlrements that current acld Carboy: would not
pass.
A task group worked closely Hlth suppllers to develop a
new caboy deslgn that met all requlrements.
A race t change 1n the deflnltlon and test for corroslve
mater1.ls meant that drums currently used for products such as
dyes, leanlng compounds or mnmg reagents were no longer legal.
The Dr Subcommlttee coordlnated 1ndustry input and succeeded
1n hav mg a new sectlon added 1n Tltle 49 to cover these lower
hazard products and allow contlnued use of present packages.
CMA 03121
The 1n reaslng complexlty and many changes 1n the
regula lons created a need for greater awareness on the part of
our emloyees as well as those 1n our carrler and dlstrlbutor
organlatlons.
The Co ‘ ltteE, together Hlth the Transportatlon
Equipm-nt and Transportatlon and Dlstrlbutlon Commlttees, sponi
sored = symposmm on hazardous materlals regulatlons Hlth over
1,100 .ttendees from all concerned shipper and carrler groups.
As to he future. each subcommlttee has an actlve task
group revlewlng waste dlsposal effects on our packages, 1nclud1ng
possl-le reuse and recycle.
The p astlc Drum Task Group recently
spons-red a workshop on plastlc drum development Hlth DDT, the
Natlo 31 Bureau of Standards. whlch 15 DDT'S contractlng agency
on pl.st1c drum developments, and representatlves from the Plastlc
Drum nstltute. the producers' assoclatlon.
Hopef lly, thls
jolnt approach, whlch we conslder to be a Significant breakthrough,
Hill .rovlde the forum for full partlclpatlon by all groups 1n
regul.tlons development and applicatlon.
In th future. we may
have -n entlrely new class of hazardous materlals to package Since
DDT h-s already 1nd1cated they have under development regulatlons
applyng to the proper packaglng and transportatlon of health
produ ts such as carclnogens, mutagens and teratogens.
The emlcal Packaglng Commlttee actlvltles far exceed
7 ea 1er efforts 1n the deslgn and development of drums, bags or
boxe to safely carry our products.
We In St conslder the product
1tse c and any potentlal health hazard; the package and packaglng
' opratlon m 1nsure we meet DDT regulatlons; the transportatlon
and lstrlbutlon requlrements such as proper loadlng, braclng
and locklng; customers must be able to safely use our packages,
and ooklng m the future, we must be able to return them or
prov de safe reuse or dlsposal to prevent solld waste problems.
In 5 mary, we belleve our responslblllty 15 to 35515:
the hemlcal 1ndustry to meet all legal requlrements whlle malni
talnng a lowirlsk posltlon 1n transportatlon mm proper cost/
bane 1: conslderatlons.
And a 1ntend to make known the posltlon
of -ur 1ndustry on leglslatlve and regulatory matters.
We ave emphaslzed today the effect of regulatlons
and leglslatlon on packaglng.
Act ally, the areas covered
affct the entlre Eleld of transportatlon and dlstrlbutlon 1n
the chemlcal 1ndustry.
Mos member companles have actlve prof
gr. 5 relatlng to hazardous materlals.
Du ’ont calls 1::
cm 037122
prgram the "RHYTHM" program, an acronym for Remember How You
Trat Hazardous Materlals.
Xn closmg, I Will show a short £11m
t t was developed to summarlze thls program.
A though 1:
e phaslzes only one company's efforts, we belleve 1: helps
lllustrate the contlnued need for MCA commltment and 1nvolvement
n transportatlon, dlstrlbutlon and packaglng actlvltles.
A 037123
Exmm 3
upon TD BOARD 017 DIRECTORS
MANUFA mums CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
James . McKee Jr.. Chalrman
Publlc Relatlons Commlttee
Novembr 22, 1975
Th haz.rds of holdlng the same offlce for two years are obvlous.
My pos tlon today 15 not unllke that of a raielected polltlclan.
It's 1 ortant to assess what was 531d :9 thls audlence last year!
In 197, the Publlc Relatlons Commlttee report covered two maln
polnts for future actlon:
1. Tha we would focus more shazply on major opportunltles as well
as the larger problems of the chemlcal 1ndustry, and
2. Tha we would establlsh closer relatlonshlps mm other functlonal
areas .5 MCA so a more meanlngful contrlbutlon to the 1ndustry's
total ommunlcatlons could be made.
These hlngs have been done.
The asaults on the chemlcal 1ndustry by medla and government 1n
the pat 12 months have made 1: imperative.
In addtlon, the
opport nlty m partlclpate 1n Dr. Heckert's Speclal Commlttee on
Toxlc ubstances Leglslatlon demonstrated what can be accompllshed
throng 1nteractlon of functlons when proper leadershlp 15 provlded.
'Spurr-d by today's publlc demands and the proof that jolnt commlttee
actlon can get thlngs done, the Publlc Relatlons Commlttee stepped
tip 1: practlce of meetlng Hlth the leadershlp of certaln other
functl-nal commlttees, partlcularly Government Relatlons, Technlcal
and Leal Advlsory.
Th1: w.s started about 19 months ago to gain a better perspectlve
of M '5 needs. What we have found 15 that we can work together
W th. we can have a common purpose and pursult. We have agreed
upon 1 sues that should be the greatest concern of the assoclatlon.
These .re human health and the envlronment. and 1ncreaslng govern*
ment nnstralnts whlch erode 1ndustry's management of 1:: resources.
Coops atlon to date has prompted us to adopt a plan for Industry
spokes anshlp, encompasslng an even larger number of functlonal
commlttees.
The plan was proposed by a comer chalrman of our commlttee, Ned
Brand of now, and adopted at our September meetlng. Most of the
comm tees we have approached have already responded favorably.
These commlttees are All“ Quallty, Water Resources, Solid Waste,
Dccup.tlonal Health, Government Relatlons, Legal Advlsory and
Chemlal Regulatlons Advlsory.
CMA n 7124
The p an calls for establlshlng a task force Hlth representatlves
of th-se commlttees and the publlc relatlons commlttee to stlmulate
spokemanshlp on the publlc lssues.
Each nommlttee Will be asked to provlde baslc facts and a statement
repreentlng MCA...5 posltlon on thelr functlon as related to govern*
ment, health and envlronment. The Air Quallty Commlttee, for
examp a, Hill provlde facts on what the chemlcal 1ndustry has done
about air pollutlon, and provlde the 1ndustry posltlon on current
legls atlve and regulatory matters.
Membe-s of the task force would serve as coordlnators of the project
recru t the best posslble spokesmen from MCA'S membershlp and arrange
platfms 1n leadlng cltles where maxlmum exposure to our polnt of, a
Vlew an be galned. We have 1n mlnd prestlglous platforms llke the
Econolc Club of Detrolt, Hlth accompanylng appearances on local
radlo and TV plus newspaper 1ntervlews.
The t_sk force would be responslble for placlng 1ndustry materlal
1n th hands of selected spokesmen, coordlnatlng appearances on a
geogr.ph1c basls and maklng sure that the load was properly spread
among the member companles.
Each peaker would develop his toplc 1n his own way, weavlng 1n
the M Aideveloped materlal at Will.
The t pe of spokesmen we have 1n mlnd are you gentlemen, the
dlrecors of MCA, supported by other chlef executlve offlcers not
press t today.
The p an has both short* and longirange advantages: The short range
1: ob lous W to gain some badly needed statements of the chemlcal
1ndus ry polnt of Vlew 1n Varlous medla. The longer range advantage
Hill a galned as we bulld up thls corps of spokesmen. MCA has a
const.nt need for 1ndustry experts who can provlde statements and
make -ppearances on relatlvely short notlce.
News edla, as you know, will use responses to lssues and handle
"the -ther slde's" posltlon when the story 15 breaklng.
There 15
no p .hc relatlons beneflt 1n 3 tardy response.
It's -1ther
1gno -d or becomes a llablllty as 1:: avaliablllty provldes the
med1.opportun1ty m retell the whole sordld story.
We h-e to get thls plan underway 1n early 1977.
1: gr: wlthout saylng that all onigolng PR programs are belng
dlre ed toward the same lssues to whlch the spokesmanshlp plan
will .e addressed.
CMA 37125
I
cnemacology will expand further 1:: coverage of member company
succ-ss storles 1n the areas of envlronment and toxlc substances.
Part alpatlon next Aprll 1n the Amerlcan Women 1n Radlo and
Tale lslon spokesmanshlp program for lay audlences Hill stress
posllve contrlbutlons by the chemlcal 1ndustry mm emphasls on
healh and envlronmental protectlon.
MCA news will contlnue to report on 1ndustry and company programs
1n tese key publlc lssues so that good 1deas can be shared across
the embershlp.
We a e conslderlng an 1dea proposed by our member from Amerlcan
Cyan- 1d, Joe Calltrl. whereby awards could be glven to member
comp.ny plants whlch have achleved goals 1n energy conservatlon.
Th1: program, of course, could demonstrate MCA'S dedlcatlon m
enery conservatlon and show that even wlthout a natlonal energy
poll y W the 1ndustry 15 dedlcated to conservatlon.
We w 11 also contlnue our three*t1mes*aiye3r Chemlcal Issues &
Co ‘ -ntary W the survey of member companles to 1dentlfy emerglng
155 as. Th1: practlce goes back to 1973, when we began polllng
peole partlclpatlng 1n MCA actlvltles 1n 51x companles and the
proesslonal staff of MCA. That panel has now grown to 19
co anles and MCA mm over 400 respondents. And 1t's the study
upo whlch we base our forward plannlng we share Hlth you today.
Gen lemsn. 1t's well known that the 95th Congress will inherit
root of thls year's envlronmental and energy lssues. Water and
air pollutlon leglslatlon will doubtless take over the spotllght
re-ntly occupled by toxlc substances.
Chmlcals 1n food and
fod packaglng Hill joln other lurklng problems llke pestleldes
to keep all of us busy. We must be prepared to answer our crltlcs,
:- ltemlze consequences of tradeoffs and to accentuate the posltlve
5 de of the chemlcal 1ndustry.
u A 037125
Exmm: I
upon TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
017
THE mmmmmms CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
BY
MATTHEW P. LANDERS
NOVEMBER 22, 1975
I appreclate the opportunlty to report to you agaln on the
actlvltles of the Tax Pollcy Commlttee.
Slnce the Vice Chalman of our CommlttEE, Frederlck Barbour
of Rohm and Haas. reported to you 1n September of 1975, we have
been concerned prlmarlly mm the leglslatlve actlvlty whlch led
up to enactment of the Tax Refom Act of 1975 on October 4.
Last year when the House Ways and Means Commlttee conducted
9:: h arlng on tax reform, I had the honor to testlfy on behalf
fji th Assoclatlon.
After passlng the House late 1n 1975, the Tax Refom Act
was referred to the senate where 1: underwent hearlngs 1n the
Senate Flnance Commlttee thls past Sprlng.
At that tune. as you
Will recall. Mr. F. Perry Wllson, Chalrman of the Board of
Unlon CarbldE, appeared on behalf of the Assoclatlon.
Our testlmony before both commlttees was devoted to two
prlnclpal areas 7 namely, capltal formatlon and taxatlon of
forelgn source 1ncome.
1n the capltal formatlon area we recommended the adoptlon
of such tax 1ncent1ves as maklng the ma 1nvestment tax credlt
pemanent, reduclng the corporate 1ncome tax rate, and provldlng
addltlonal cost recovery allowances. We contended these actlons
are needed to 35515: 1ndustry to generate sufflclent funds
1nternally to meet capltal requlrements.
1n the forelgn area we recommended that no change be made 1n
the forelgn tax credlt provlslons, and none mm respect to the
timing of the 1mposltlon of v.5. tax on forelgn earnlngs of forelgn
subsldlarles; the scicalled "deferral" issue.
In order to stlmulate
<ports and to 1mprov our balanc
of payments posltlon, we also
'ecommended that the arse be retalned.
CMA 037127
2
The Tax Refom Act as flnally enacted (P.L. 9474557 15 a
masslve document contalnlng many hundreds of provlslons whlch will
touch every taxpayer, corporate and 1nd1v1dual, 1n the country.
I understand that 3111 Stover brlefed you gentlemen 1n September
on the more Significant provlslons of the mm as agreed to by the
Bonsaisenate conference commlttee.
As these provlslons remalned
baslcally unchanged on flnal passage of the leglslatlon, 1 Hill
polnt out a few areas whlch the new law does not address.
:'I
I
1
Aslde from extendlng the
1nvestment tax credlt through 1980,
the Act does llttle to 35515: capltal fomatlon.
Although a task
force of the House Ways and Means Commlttee, headed by Chalrman
Al Ullman of Oregon, conducted a study to conslder the use of the
tax code to stlmulate capltal formatlon, 1: has not yet publlshed
1:: report.
:'I
1
In the forelgn source 1ncome area, the new tax law has a
numb r of dlsturblng provlslons, but 1: dld not deal to any baslc
extent Hlth the two ltems of major concern to 1ndustry, namely the
timing of taxatlon of forelgn source 1ncome (scicalled deferral)
and the forelgn tax credlt.
You Will recall that a group of tax
refomimlnded Senators sponsored amendments to requlre current
taxatlon of the 1ncome of forelgn subsldlarles of v.5. companles
and to change the forelgn tax credlt m a deductlon, but thelr
proposals were all defeated.
c
The House ways and Means Commlttee also set up a task force,
headed by Representatlve Rostenkowskl, (DrIllJ, to study the
taxatlon of forelgn 1ncome.
No report has been lssued and we
have no 1nd1catlon as to what recommendatlons are llkely to be
forthcomlng.
Conslderlng the initial attltude of the 94th
Congress, we belleve our 1ndustry was most fortunate to emerge
mm the major tax provlslons affectlng forelgn source 1ncome
relatlvely 1ntact.
c
1
The MCA Tax Pollcy Commlttee has also been actlve mm
resp Ct to recent rule*mak1ng proposals 1n1tlated by the 1nternal
Revenue Servlce.
we have been partlcualrly concerned Hlth a proposal to amend
Sectlon 951 of the Income Tax Regulatlons, whlch relates to the
allocatlon and apportlonment of deductlons for 1ncome tax purposes.
As you Will recall. wlthout the beneflt of change 1n the law or
court declslons. 1n 1973 the Treasury Department proposed revls d
regulatlons whlch would cause most companles to lose substantlal
1
t
1
I
c
1
CMA 037129
I
3
forelgn tax credlts.
MCA went on record 1n 1973 and agaln 1n 1974
opposlng the regulatlons and recommendlng that they be wlthdrawn.
Because of 1ndustry's strong opposltlon, these proposed regulatlons
were never flnallzed.
Wlthln the past year there has been a great deal of renewed
governmental actlvlty regardlng these regulatlons and the 1nternal
Revenue Servlce and the Treasury Department appeared anxlous m
flnallze them,
1n the meantlme. the Economlc Pollcy Board became
1nterested 1n the 351 issue.
That Board establlshed a task force
composed of representatlves of a number of Federal agencles,
1nclud1ng the Departments of Commerce and Treasury and the Councll
on 1nternatlonal Economlc Pollcy, to study the problem.
Durlng the past year the Treasury Department proposed a serles
of compromlses almed at overcomlng 1ndustry opposltlon to the
proposed regulatlons.
Members of our Tax Pollcy Commlttee have had
a number of meetlngs mm representatlves of Treasury and the Councll
on 1nternatlonal Economlc Pollcy concernlng the regulatlons and
«n suggested Treasury revlslons.
1: was the opinion of a majorlty of the Tax Pollcy Commlttee
members that the Treasury Department's suggested changes to the
1973 proposed regulatlons dld not go far enough to make the
regulatlons acceptable to the chemlcal 1ndustry.
Therefore. we have
contlnued to oppose the proposed regulatlons.
Our opposltlon has
been dlrected primarily at those provlslons of the regulatlons
whlch would requlre that a portlon of domestlc R L n expense be
allocated agalnst a company...s forelgn 1ncome,
1n the case of a
company mm large R L n expendltures, thls could have the effect
of substantlally reduclng that company's forelgn tax credlt,
resultlng 1n Significant double taxatlon.l
I mlght mentlon that there was a mlnorlty Vlew Hlthln the
Tax pollcy Commlttee recommendlng support for the Treasury
proposal to relssue the proposed regulatlons 1n modlfled form
provldlng we made 1: clear that we reserved the rlght to object
to the proposed regulatlons after we have had an opportunlty to
study them.
Th1: Vlew was based on the thought that the revlsed
proposal represented a substantlal unprovement over the orlglnal
1973 proposal.
Th1: Vlew was not shared by the majorlty of our
Commlttee.
CMA 037129
Because of a unlted front on these questlons by many organlzai
tlons 1nclud1ng MCA, The Machlnery and Allled Products 1n5t1tute,
the Natlonal Forelgn Trade Councll and others, we understood the
155“ was dead for 1975.
We were qulte suzprlsed, therefore, when
the 1nternal Revenue Servlce publlshed the revlsed regulatlons 1n
proposed form on November am.
e understand that thls actlon was
aken by the Treasury Department wlthout clearlng the subject Hlth
t e Economlc Pollcy Board.
T a new proposals are qulte compllcated and our member companles
a a currently studylng them to detemlne thelr effect.
I 15 apparent
t at the unpact can be dlfferent from company to company dependent
u on Varlous busmess factors and we antlclpate dlfferences of
1
o nlon as to whether MCA should support or oppose the provlslons.
A rltten statement will be prepared based on comments to be recelved
fr In our members by November 29th.
Pu 11c hearlngs Will be held 1n
W3 hlngton on December 16th and 1: 15 antlclpated that 3 represents]:
:1 e of the Tax Pollcy Commlttee will appear.
In concluslon. I would llke to state that we faced 1975 mm
a rest deal of trepldatlon as m the flnal effect of the Tax
Re om Act of 1975.
We were qulte actlve 1n attemptlng to present
th chemlcal 1ndustry's Viewpoint and feel qulte relleved to have
Co a through the year as well as we am.
We now face the comlng year 1n antlelpatlon of greater tax
as lvlty.
on goal remalns to obtaln leglslatlon to am 1n capltal
fo atlon and, hopefully, an enllghtened attltude 1n congress Hlth
re ard to the necesslty to malntaln our competltlveness abroad.
We are commencmg thls year Hlth hearlng actlvlty on the Sectlon
ea Regulatlons and antlclpate further actlvlty as regulatlons on
the Boycott and lllegal Payments provlslons are publlshed.
In ther words. your Tax Pollcy Commlttee has had a busy
yea and expects to remaln actlve and vigilant 1n the year ahead.
I w nt to thank you gentlemen for the support you have glven
us nd I Will answer any questlons you mlght Wish to ask.
CMA 037130
Exhibit C
upon BY THE unmamn 0F sovmmmm RELATIONS
WILLIAM M. sTov‘ER
JANUARY 11, 1977
ULLMAN AT THE CHEMICAL mum
Featured speaker at today's CHEMICAL mum luncheon Will be
the Honorable Al Ullman (B.fored, Chalrman of the House Ways and
Means Commlttee. Slnce replaclng Wllbur M1115 as leader of thls
powerful Commlttee 1n 1973, Mr. Ullman has succeeded 1n puttlng
his own personal stamp of 1:: methods and achlevements. The
crltlcal lssues of tax refom. trade regulatlon, energy conseri
Vatlon. penslon reform and Congresslonal budget he Within the
jurlsdlctlon of Ways and Means. Most central to our 1nterests
today will be Congressman Ullman's comments on the forthcomlng
Carter economc stlmulus package and how 1: 15 llkely m be re*
celved by the Congress. He 1: expected to take questlons from
the audlence at the concluslon of his remarks.
SENATE AND HOUSE cmva
The 95th Congress began on January 4 as Members of the House
and Senate gathered to elect new leaders and to commence an ami
bltlous program of organlzatlon, reorganlzatlon and leglslatlve
problemisolvlng.
In scarcely more than a week, the Congress:
7 elected new leaders (four new faces 1n the Elva top
leadershlp postsy;
7 began work on rules changes and reorganlzatlon plans
(House procedural changes are almed prlmarlly at ca,
Cllltatlng conslderatlon of leglslatlon on the floor,
whlle Senate reorganlzatlon 15 a potentlally farreachlng consolldatlon of commlttee jurlsdlctlons);
CMA 037145
2
7 began Senate conflrmatlon hearlngs on Carter Cablnet
cholaesi
7 1ntroduced a flood of mus (some 1,400 1ntroduced
on the flrst day 1n the House of Representatlves alone);
7 engaged 1n the process of asslgnlng members to commlti
tees and determlnlng chalmanshlps (the House could
complete commlttee asslgnments by January 19, but the
Senate will requlre conslderably longer to flnallze
1:: structure; the masslve reorganlzatlon plan under
conslderatlon by the Senate Rules Conmlttee will cause
delay and untll 1:5 Eats 15 determlned the freshmen
Senators have been given temporary asslgnments declded
by chance7 .
mmsnmm mm: REMAINS ACTIVE
Amld preparatlons for the dellvery of ms flnal State*ofithevnlon message January 12, Presldent Ford has found tune to submlt
a number of pollcy proposals for publlc conslderatlon and posslble
Congresslonal actlon. In recent days he has:
7 proposed that Puerto Rlco be granted Statehood;
7 sent to the Congress a major tax reductlon message whlch
calls for a $10 mumn cut 1n personal 1ncome taxes and
52.5 bllllon 1n corporate tax cuts; few observers expect
the proposal to be serlously consldered, but 1: may serve
as a yardstlck agalnst whlch to measure the scope of
Presldentielect Carter's economlc stlmulus package;
7 submltted m the Congress a comprehenslve energy message
whlch emphaslzed the 1mportance of prompt actlon, whlle
warnlng agalnst "easy answers" and opposlng a sharply
expanded Federal role 1n energy matters;
readled a proposal to 115: gasollne price controls.
5
CMA 037145
N
presldentielect carter reveals outllnes of economc stlmulus
package and other leglslatlve tlmetables
Whlle contlnulng to meet mm and make declslons on prospectlve
offlceﬁlolders for his Admlnlstratlbn, Presldentielect Carter re*
vealed the general shape of ms taxes/jobs plan deslgned to stlmui
late the v. 5. economy 1n early 1977. Though detalls are not
flnallzed. the key elements of thls two year and $30 bllllon
package appear to be:
7 a goal of returnlng 900,000 persons to work, thereby
cuttlng unemployment flgures by 17~ 1n each of '77 and
7 an 1ncrease 1n the standard deductlon (worth $4 bllllomi
7 deductlons 1n payroll tax payments for busmess (worth
7 Simplification of the tax forms (reportedly m be a
major responslblllty of Laurence Woodworth, Asslstant
Secretary of the Treasury for Tax Pollcyideslgnatey;
7 expanslon of certaln publlc works programs 152 mumm;
7 1ncreased grants to cltles (1n the nelghborhood of $1
The Carter plan has already drawn crltlclsm from the AFL7CID,
elements of the news medla and flgures on Capltol 3111 who char?
acterlze 1: as cautlous. too slow, and lacklng 1n threat jobs
creatlon.
MeanwhllE, key.Carter aldes have revealed the broad outllnes
of ms leglslatlve tlmetables. They hope that by February 3, leglsi
latlon can be submltted whlch would set up an overall energy dE*
partment and enable the new Presldent m begln broad reorganlzatlon
of the Executlve Branch.
By Aprll 20 the new Admlnlstratlon Hill
submlt a message outllnlng energy and envlronmental lssues. May 1
15 the deadllne for a draft of leglslatlon deslgned m brlng about
recom of the welfare system. The economlc recovery and stlmulatlon
program 15 more immediatE, however. mm the Carter blueprlnt ex*
pected to be sent to the Congress by the end of January. Congre57
slonal leaders of both the House and Senate have pledged to give
1: early attentlon.
CMAD37147
SECTION 951 REGULATIONS APPROVED
on January 3 the Commlssloner of Internal Revenue approved new
1ncome tax regulatlons relatlng to the allocatlon and apportlonment
of deductlons to gross 1ncome to detemlne taxable 1ncome from
sources Within and wlthout the Unlted States W the sorcalled
Sectlon 951 Regulatlons.
Inltlally proposed 1n 1973, they were wlthdrawn and reproposed
1n revlsed form last November. MCA submltted wrltten comments
strongly opposlng the 1973 proposal, then testlfled at a publlc
hearlng 1n 1974, recommendlng that the proposed rules be wlthdrawn.
The revlsed proposed regulatlons lssued last November met a number
of our earller objectlons, but 5:111 contalned provlslons whlch we
consldered burdensome. We then submltted wrltten comments on the
revlsed proposal, questlonlng the lssuance of regulatlons 1n the
absence of enabllng leglslatlon and recommendlng addltlonal changes.
A member of our Tax Pollcy Commlttee presented our testlmony at an
ms hearlng 1n mldinecember.
The flnal regulatlons are substantlally Similar to those lssued
last November. but certaln clarlfylng amendments were adopted.
Baslcally, they will cause an 1ncrease 1n the amount of deductlons,
expenses and losses of v. s. taxpayers requlred m be allocated
to forelgn gross 1ncome. The allowable forelgn tax credlt Will
be proportlonately reduced, because taxable 1ncome from sources
abroad determlned under the new rules will almost always be less
than that whlch would be detemlned under the old regulatlons.
The effect of the new regulatlons on 1nd1v1dual companles 15
llkely to Vary wldely dependlng on factors such as the scope of
forelgn operatlons, the quantlty of research and development ac*
tlvlty perfomed Within the Unlted States, and the amount of
domestlc 1nterest expense.
In late November. the Tax Pollcy Commlttee was polled on the
trategy questlon of whether or not to request a delay for the
ubmlsslon of comments on the new revlsed regulatlons. The Com?
lttee opinion was evenly dlvlded and no consensus could be
ached.
r
N u that the regulatlons have been flnallzed, some member
a mpanl 5 may wlsh :9 shall nge the legallty of th r gulatlons
t rough 1ndependent litigation. We do not antlelpate further MCA
3 tlon Hlth regard to the 951 Regulatlons at the pr sent tune.
t
037149
5
m RGY CoNsERvATmN GOAL
Th Energy Pollcy and Conservatlon Act of 1975 requlres the
Fe eral Energy Admlnlstratlon to set energy conservatlon goals
to the ten most enerquntensme 1ndustr1es, ours belng flrst
an foremost. FEA engaged contractors to carry on studles and
pr pose goals. The contractor 1n our case was Battelle Memorlal
In tltute. Hlth Chem Systems as a subcontractor.
In tlally,
Ba tells arrlved at a flgure of 15.57, energy conservatlon par
un t of output by January 1, 1980, as compared Hlth 1972. FEA
ro nded thls out to a goal of 157,, and scheduled a hearlng on 1:
to December 7. Shortly before the hearlng, Battelle revlsed 1:5
51 ure to 14.17,. Accordlngly, Ronald s. Wlshart, Jr., Chalman
of MCA'S Energy Conservatlon Commlttee, testlfled 1n support of
a 47. goal. We understand from rellable sources that FEA has
de 1ded on the 147, flgure; however, thls has not yet been of?
n lally proclalmed. The FEA has untll January 21 to make 1:5
to 31 announcement.
A 47. goal by January 1, 1980, would be Vlrtually 1dent1cal
m our earller consensus goal of 157., Since thls was to have
be achleved 1n calendar 1990, a llttle later.
In dentally,
the achlevement of the goal 1: not mandatory, although fallure
m 0 so could obvlously 1ncur publlc and Congresslonal relatlons
pro lems.
50 01> Emusyicousvmms commums IDENTIFIED
EP requlres FEA to 1dentlfy the top nay energyiconsumlng
co anles 1n each of the ten most energy 1ntenslve 1ndustr1es.
The 115:: were publlshed 1n the FEDERAL REGISTER of December 15.
Som 4a of the sn chemlcal companles llsted are MCA members.
of
the e, 42 are taklng part 1n our Voluntary energy conservatlon
rep rtlng program.
The other four are companles whose major out*
put 1: 1n areas other than baslc 1ndustrlal chemlcals, and they
are reportlng through other trade assoclatlons.
The companles so llsted would be subject to mandatory mi
div dual reportlng, unless exempted through partlclpatlon 1n an
1nd stryiwlde Voluntary program, such as MCA'S.
To ecure such
axe ptlon, both the trade assoclatlon concerned and the part1c1*
pat ng companles 1nd1v1dually have :9 Elle requests mm FEA.
CMA 037149
MCA dld so 1n December. 1975. Havlng advance 1nformatlon on the
MCA member companles m be llsted, MCA notlfled them on December
13, provldlng a sample letter to be sent to FEA.
1: s belleved
tha all concerned MCA member companles have responded, and that
our partlclpatlng companles Will be able to carry on the report*
mg program as beforE. mm mlnor revlslons.
Exhlblt u
report to the board of dlrectors
MANUFACTURING CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
JOHN J. MDYNA. CHAIRMAN
Foou, mum, AND cosMETIC CHEMICALS COMMITTEE
JANUARY 11,
1977
I welcome thls opportunlty to acqualnt you mm some of the
areas of our Commlttee's concern 1n the past year and some of the
legal and regulatory problems confrontlng the Food Addltlve and
phamaceutlcal segments of the 1ndustry 1n the year ahead.
In the area of major new leglslatlon, we antlelpate that
Congress will act on the Food Survelllance 13111.
Th1: 13111 was
passed by the Senate 1n 197a and was under actlve conslderatlon by
the Rogers Commlttee 1n the House when Congress adjourned.
Among
1:5 prlnclpal provlslons 15 a requlrement for the reglstratlon Hlth
FDA of all plants whlch manufacture foods or food chemlcals.
1:
k...1ll also impose on every segment of the food processlng 1ndustry
rthe obllgatlon of selfipollclng by each manufacturer's establlshment
and adherence to adequate safety assurance procedures approprlate :9
ms plant.
These procedures are to 1dentlfy areas 1n the manufac*
turlng process 1n whlch product adulteratlon 15 llkely or posslble
and set forth and 1mplement effectlve measures to reduce or slimy
mate" the rlsk of adulteratlon.
The 1975 Senate 3111 offered no
guldellnes on detemlnlng the "adequacy" of the safety assurance
procedures and the vagueness of the new law may present substantlal
compllance problems.
Another unportant area whlch the Senate 3111 addressed and
whlch, we belleve. Congress will act upon 1n 1977, 15 the unpact of
the v.5. Supreme Court declslon 1n v.5. v. Park.
1n the Park Cass,
the Supreme Court ruled that a corporate executlve could be prose*
cuted under the crlmlnal provlslons of the Food, Drug & Cosmetlc
Act for product adulteratlon, 1rrespect1ve of his personal 1gnorance
of the sltuatlon causlng the adulteratlon and however remote ms
1nvolvement 1n that Situation.
The Court thus 1mposed absolute
crlmlnal llablllty based merely upon the responslblllty of 1nd1v1dual
corporate offlcers for certaln areas of actlvlty.
The Consumer Food
leglslatlon would 11m: the crlmlnal responslblllty of executlves to
those Situations 1n whlch the adulteratlon arose from some neglk
genes or 1ntentlonal conduct on the part of the responslble company
cm 037151
offlclal.
In the same vem, the Food & Drug Admlnlstratlon Hill
lssue regulatlons unplementlng and deflnlng 1:5 pollcy under the
Park declslon.
Our Commlttee Will be followlng both those develop*
ments Very closely.
Other requlrements of the new leglslatlon Will
be extenslve recordkeeplng and reportlng requlrements and codlng
and labellng requlrements deslgned to expedlte recalls.
In the regulatory areas, FDA has already publlshed proposed
regulatlons for good laboratory practlces deslgned m 1nsure the
accuracy and sufflclency of test data submltted to the Agency 1n
support of new drug appllcatlons, food and color addltlve petitions
and slmllar appllcatlons where FDA approval 15 requlred.
Our 1nvolved
subcommlttees will undertake to detemlne the approprlateness of
submlttlng comments on these proposed regulatlons.
Addltlonal areas of regulatory actlvlty and concern Hill
1nclude FDA'S GRAS revlew of food chemlcals...a subject on whlch our
Commlttee has submltted extenslve comments 1n the past...and the po*
tentlal unpact of the Toxlc Substances Leglslatlon upon Food, Drug,
& Cosmetlc Chemlcals.
I would llke to say a few words on the latter
subject.
Upon initial revlew ofihe Toxlc Substances leglslatlon, many
of the regulatory affalrs and legal people 1n the phamaceutlcal
and food 1ndustr1es took comfort from what seemed to be a total
exemptlon from coverage accorded to foods, drugs and cosmetlcs.
on
closer scrutlny, however, 1: becomes apparent that 1ntemedlate chemi
leals used 1n the manufacture of flnlshed food addltlves and drugs
may well be covered by the new law.
The questlon of the appllcablllty
of the Toxlc Substances leglslatlon to drug and food chemlcal 1nteri
medlates requlres early resolutlon because of the consequences whlch
attend nonilncluslon of a chemlcal 1n EPA...5 1nventory of "old"
chemlcal substances under the Act.
If, 1n fact. all 1ntermedlates
are covered by the new law, pharmaceutlcal and food chemlcal manui
facturers will probably be requlred to report all 1ntermedlates to
EPA 1n order m avold the consequences of new chemlcal status.
Hope*
fully, our Commlttee Will be able to make some 1nput to EPA on thls
unportant questlon.
EPA has requested suggestlons of all 1nterested
persons on 1:: prospectlve admlnlstratlon of the Toxlc Substances
Law and plans to hold a number of publlc hearlngs to SDllClt further
comment.
So much for the year ahead.
I would.llke to comment Very
cm 037152
I
brlefly on our Commlttee's actlvltles for the past year.
The
Commlttee drafted recommended comments for MCA on the PDA'S recall
regulatlons 1n September of 1975.
MCA had prevlously commented
on the Agency's general procedural regulatlons governlng adm1n15*
tratlve hearlngs.
These comments represent a conslderable commlti
men: of time and effort on the part of 1nd1v1dual members of our
Commlttee.
In 1:: flnal admlnlstratlve procedure regulatlons, FDA
recognlzed the Valldlty of many of our polnts and 1nd1cated that
1:: luvplementatlon of the regulatlons would take 1nto account the
concerns we expressed.
The effectlveness of our Commlttee...and of MCA...as an 1ndustry
Volce 15 to some extent llmlted by the llmlted tune 1n whlch to submlt
comments to the Agency and the MCA commlttee structure 1tself, whlch .
relles almost completely on the work product of the commlttee members.
In the last regard, I belleve that the Commlttee's effectlveness
could be enhanced by more threat MCA staff 1nvolvement mm FDA
representatlves on lssues of general 1nterest and by more actlve
staff partlclpatlon 1n the preparatlon of wrltten 1nput on Agency
proposals.
Th1: 15 1ntended as recognltlon of llmltatlons 1nherent
1n MCA'S method of operatlon, not as a reflectlon on the staff.
I am grateful for thls opportunlty to give you some 1dea of
our Commlttee's actlvltles and concerns and welcome any speclflc
questlons you may have.
cm 037153
Exhlblt E
MCA Industrlal Relatlons Advlsory Commlttee Report
to the
Board of Dlrectors
January 11, 1977
John J. Radlgan, Chalrman
In September 1975 I had the prlvllege of speaklng m the
Board of Dlrectors to report on the 1ndustrlal Relatlons Advlsory
Commlttee's actlvltles.
At that tune. I took a few mlnutes m
crystaliball what I saw 1n the near future 1n the broad area of
1ndustrlal relatlons.
A5 I 1nd1cated 1n my projectlons, we have
seen relatlvely mgn 1nflatlon contlnue through 1975, coupled mm
hlgh 1ncreases 1n wages at all levels.
New and 1mproved frlnge
hen 51:5, 1nclud1ng dental plans, have become commonplace, and we
hav wltnessed a strong push for job securlty, fueled by the reces*
slon.
In my oplnlon, even though 1nflatlon has slowed down, and
hop fully Hill contlnue to do so, wages Hill rlse 1n excess of the
current level of 1nflat10n, and frlnge beneflts together Hlth job
5 curlty will become the maln thrust of organlzed labor.
Other
forms of 1nsurance programs, such as those coverlng automoblles and
legal fees, will reach the bargalnlng table.
A5 to job securlty, we shall see 1n the next three to Elva
years a deflnlte major breakthrough 1n thls area, whlch Hill splll
over 1nto most of our major companles and 1ndustr1es Hlth such in,
novatlons as guaranteed work weeks, no tune cards, etc.
A key
negotlatlon to watch 1n thls regard 15 that between the baslc steel
1ndustry and the Unlted Steelworkers of Amerlca.
The initial sesslon
1: Scheduled for February 14, and they will contlnue Voluntary negotlai
tlons untll Aprll 20, at whlch tune any unresolved natlonal contract
lssues Will be submltted to arbltratlon under the Experlmental
Negotlatlon Agreement.
The arbltratlon panel 15 to issue 1:: declslon
no later than July 10.
Securlty 15 shaplng up as a major item,
Since costiofillvlng protectlon and a standardiofillvlng 1ncrease are
foregone concluslons.
Th1: 1ncludes "1ncome" securlty and "employ
ment" securlty and could 1nclude costiofillvlng adjustments on
Vacatlons, penslons, and 1nsurance beneflts and further restrlctlons
on contractlngiout of work.
A shorter work week and addltlonal paid
days off could also be 1n th
plcture.
Although there has in en a great deal of talk about caidetemlnai
tlon and works counclls mlgratlng from Europe, 1 do not trunk they
cm 037154
will become a part of our 1ndustrlal life here 1n the Unlted Stafias,
at least not 1n the near future 7 and, 15 at all, not 1n the same
form as we are experlenclng 1n Europe.
Two other areas whlch will stand out for 1ncreased future
actlvlty are occupatlonal safety and health and equal employment
opportunlty.
Whether you have muons or not, your employees are
becomlng more aware of thelr rlghts 1n these areas,
15 you have
muons, many are bulldlng technlcal staffs 1n the safety, hyglene,
and health flelds to am thelr locals 1n audltlng the safety of
our work places.
Several companles 1n our 1ndustry have experlenced
employee health crlses 1n the last year, mm the resultlng employee
and publlc relatlons problems.
We must be prepared to devote more
management time and resources to avold further employee anxletles
about the safety of thelr work locatlons.
A5 for OSHA 1tself. Dr.
Corn, who now heads 1:, has attempted to brlng a balance to the
agency, stresslng educatlon rather than only compllance.
1
Under the best of clrcumstanceS, those of us mm unlons can
1
expect to hear more about health and safety 1n future negotlatlons.
muons are impatient Hlth OSHA.
Indeed, ans, 7 the ml, Chemlcal, and
Atomlc Workers 7 15 sulng OSHA.
We should expect that thls luvpatlence
will result 1n 3 more threat approach Hlth employers, 1nclud1ng
demands for safety commlttees Hlth authorlty, use of unlon safety
consultants 1n our plants, and hlgher Visibility for such unmm
orlented medlcal consultants as Dr. Irvlng Sellkoff, who has
recently been featured at unlon conventlons, 1nclud1ng those of
the oCAw and the 1nternatlonal chemlcal Workers wmon.
The equal employment Eleld 15 another fastichanglng one.
Inltlally, most unlon leadershlp stayed far afleld of employers'
equal employment actlvltles, and understandably:
most of thelr
membershlp was whlte and male and dldn't advocate or want much
change.
But, as our efforts to better utilize minorities and
females have been successful. these same unlons are now respond?
mg to thls growlng mlnorlty and female membershlp 1n several ways.
The grlevance procedure has always been avaliable to resolve
problems, 1nclud1ng those of alleged dlscrlmlnatlon.
But we haven't
seen anythlng yet.
Hourly employees 1n 1ncreaslng numbers are
utlllzlng all avaliable forums to resolve thelr discrimination com?
plalnts 7 grlevance procedures, local and state human rlghts com?
mlsslons. the EEOC. the employer's compllance agency, as well as
prlvate equal employment groups.
vmon leadershlp will push to
become more 1nvolved 1n our equal employment opportunlty efforts,
partly out of a new 1nterest and partly to protect themselves from
dlscrlmlnatlon charges from thelr new female and mlnorlty members.
cm 037155
Th1: Hill contlnue to burden us Hlth tlmedzonsumlng and expenslve
Investlgatlons and lltlgatlons.
However. I forecast an even more
dlfflcult tune as the concept of afflmatlve actlon 15 applled to
the employment and upgradlng of professlonal employees.
Our
abllltles as managers to plan, organlze, control, evaluate and
motlvate Will be tested as never before.
There follow detalled reports on partlcular areas of the
Commlttee's 1nterest.
The Outlook for Labor Leglslatlon 1n the New Congress
Spokesman for organlzed labor have declared that they are
golng to give overirldlng prlorlty to measures to revlve the
economy and reduce unemployment, rather than to thelr own
parochlal 1nterests.
1: 15 clear that the incoming Admnlstrr
tlon 15 slmllarly 1ncllned, though not clear whether 1: 15 as
enthuslastlc as labor 1n support of the Humphreyiﬂawklns mu.
However. after the Admlnlstratlon and the Congress have
done what they can about unemployment, the unlons Will be presslng
the
nactment of measures of partlcular 1nterest to them, Hlth
greater hope of success 1n Vlew of the makeup of the Congress and
the leadlng role labor played 1n the Carter Victory.
The unlons'
lengthy shopplng 115: 1ncludes:
Falr Labor Standards Act 7 3111: Will be 1ntroduced m 1ncrease
the minimum hourly wage, Hlth 53.00 a llkely shortiterm target.
In addltlon. proposals will be made to 1ndex the minimum wage by
tlelng 1: to wage movements generally or m the Consumer Price
Index.
A5 a consequence of the current hlgh rate of unemployment,
whlch seems llkely to prevall through 1977, mm: Will be 1ntroduced
Hlth the stated objectlve of spreadlng the avaliable work by 1ncreas*
mg the present 50% overtlme premlum for hours worked over forty per
Proposals also will be made under the Walshiﬂealey
Publlc Contracts Act to ralse the present 50% premlum for hours
worked 1n excess of elght per day to 100%.
Natlonal Labor Relatlons Act 7 Our success v15 Presldentlal
Veto 1n opposlng common 51m: plcketlng 1n 1975 may be shorpllved.
31115 are certaln m be 1ntroduced m legallze secondary boycotts
at constructlon sltes; 1.e., m permlt one unlon m plcket an entlre
project 1nvolv1ng several employers and muons.
Further. there Will
llkely be a serlous attempt to repeal Sectlon 141m, the scicalled
"rlght to work" provlslon under whlch 20 states (predomlnantly 1n
the soutm have banned compulsory unlon membershlp clauses.
3111:
Will be pressed to speed up NLRB pros sses.
For example, to make
cm 037155
the recommended orders of admlnlstratlve law judges (formerly,
trlal examlner57 selfiexecutlng and flnal, subject to appeal
upon grant of certlorarl by the Labor Board (meanlng the Board at
1:5 dlscretlon may entertaln appealy.
Currently, even orders of
the Board are not selfiexecutlng; rather, the Board must petition
a Clrcult Court of Appeals for enforcement of orders.
Equal Employment Dpportunlty 7 31115 are llkely to be 1ntroduce"
whlch would confer upon the Equal Employment Opportunlty Commlsslon
much of the power enjoyed by the Natlonal Labor Relatlons Board;
1.e., to make detemlnatlons that unfalr employment practlces have
been commltted.
EEOC presently 15 authorlzed m 1nvest1gate and
conclllate dlscrlmlnatlon charges and, where 1: 15 unsuccessful
1n conclllatlon, to 1nst1tute 5m: agalnst the alleged Vlolators.
The Supreme Court recently declded that employers need not as a
matter of law equate pregnancy leave and dlsablllty leave 1nsofar
as pay contlnuatlon or 1nsured beneflts are concerned.
mule thls
declslon llfted the threat of substantlal backipay liability from
employers, 1: will spur the filing of mil: to compel employers 1n
the future to fully equate pregnancy leave and dlsablllty leave.
Unemployment Compensatlon 7 There Will be a strong push to
mpose upon the statewadmlnlstered system a set of Federal minimum
beneflts standards (1.e., to set a floor, not a Ceiling).
Workers Compensatlon 7 Here, too, the matter of Federal beneflts
standards will be pressed.
At least equal attentlon Will be given
to unposlng Federal standards for coverage of occupatlonal dlseases.
Concelvably the latter standards mlght 1nclude presumptlon of the
occupatlonal nature of dlsease, absent proof to the contrary; 1.e.,
mar
employment 1n the Vlclnlty of a glven substance would give rlse
to the presumptlon.
Plant closmg or Relocatlon Controls 7 Some attempt 15 llkely m
revlve the proposal made 1n the prevlous Congress requlrlng employers
to give advance notlce (as much as two yearsy of plant closmgs
and/or relocatlons.
Such leglslatlon would give the Labor Depart‘
ment the power to hold publlc hearlngs and m deprlve the employer of
tax beneflts (e.g., 1nvestment tax credlt, deferral of tax on forelgn
1ncomE7 where a closmg or relocatlon was found unjustlfled.
Th1:
proposal seems so extreme as to render passage most unllkely.
Howevelll"
1: 15 entlrely concelvable that Congress may authorlze a study of
plant relocatlons by major employers.
The study mlght well extend
I
beyond the v. s. to 1nclude the alleged "export" of jobs by U.S.7based!
multlnatlonal ﬁlms.
I
I
am 037157
I
penslons. Soclal Securlty, and Health Insurance
The new penslon leglslatlon became effectlve 1n 1975.
All
prlvate penslon plans had to be adjusted to confom mm 1:.
The three major areas of adjustment were: 117 wasting; 127 fundlng?
and 137 maklng jolnt survlvorshlp mandatory 1n all plans.
The
baslc 1ntentlon was to assure sound fundlng and "mow: beneflts
for all prlvate plans.
An unlntended effect has been a hlgh
number of penslon plan termlnatlons by small employers due to the
hlgh cps: of admlnlstratlon.
Th1: will probably call for some
revlslons 1n the leglslatlon durlng 1977.
The soclal securlty system has operated 1n the red for the
past two years.
Although the 94th Congress ultlmately took no
actlon. seemlngly the 95th Congress will have to do somethlng to
cope mm the contlnulng flow of red 1nk.
Industry for the most
part 15 reslgned to acceptance of an 1ncrease 1n the tax rate (now
11.7967 and taxable wage base (515,500 1n 19777 the latter to move
Hlth wages and salarles generally.
However. there 15 strong sentk
men: among some leglslators to tap general revenues and/or to d15*
pense mm any Calling on the taxable wage base (but wlthout com?
mensurate 1ncrease 1n beneflts for hlgheripald personsy.
. No change 1: 1n the offlng 1n the age requlrements for recelpt
of old age beneflts under Soclal Securlty.
However. the concept of
mandatory retlrement at any given age under prlvatelyisponsored peni
slon plans 15 comlng under 1ncreaslng flre from soclal sclentlsts
and others.
Thus. 1: 15 posslble that Congress may authorlze a study
of the mandatory retlrement age concept whlch ultlmately (but not 1n
19777 could be the basls for leglslatlon affectlng thls provlslon of
most penslon plans.
The comlng year 15 llkely m brlng adjustments 1n the Medlcare
and Medlcald areas. due to the escalatlng costs of medlcal servlces.
There Will be many proposals 1n the natlonal health 1nsurance
area, ranglng from the equlvalent of catastrophlc lllness coverage
to complete coverage.
There Will be conslderable range, too, 1n the
degree of employer flnanclal support requlred under the Varlous pro*
posals.
mm the Carter Admlnlstratlon commltted m actlon 1n thls
fleld, enactment sooner or later of some natlonal health 1nsurance
plan seems certaln.
1: could concelvably be enacted 1n 1977, m be
effectlve 1n 1979.
However. 1n Vlew of the cost consequences to the
Federal budget 7 and also mm an eye to the most propitious tlmlng
polltlcally 7 enactment could well be delayed untll 1979.
cm 037159
5
OSHA Developments
Upon his appolntment as Asslstant Secretary of Labor for DC*
cupatlonal Safety and Health a .year ago, Morton Corn 1mmedlately
set about to make the Dccupatlonal Safety and Health Admlnlstratlon
a more professlonal organlzatlon.
The perceptlon of OSHA by the
publlc, government, and 1ndustry at the time was hlghly unflatterlng.
Morton Corn has not yet succeeded 1n reverslng that Vlew, but 15
determlned to do so.
He has made headway toward maklng OSHA a more
comp tent organlzatlon.
If he remalns 1n the offlce under the
Carter Admlnlstratlon, he will contlnue to 1ncrease the technlcal
competence of the OSHA staff, to work for reorganlzatlon of the
agency and to seek cooperatlon from both labor and 1ndustry 1n
settlng standards.
In short, Morton Corn 1: maklng OSHA a new
and dlfferent klnd of organlzatlon.
The full unpact of these
changes on 1ndustry 15 yet to be known, but steppediup actlvlty on
a more professlonal level 15 certaln.
1
OSHA has a proposal under conslderatlon to allow certaln companl s to establlsh thelr own Federallyiapproved safety rograms.
A5 proposed, thls program would establlsh three groups of employers:
those who would be requlred to comply Hlth OSHA standards; those
who could devlate from OSHA standards on a standardibyistandard
basls; and those who could establlsh thelr own safety programs after
a probatlonary perlod.
DSHA'S examlnatlon of thls proposed program
apparently was generated by a finding that 704% of all deaths and
injuries 1n 1ndustry are not attrlbutable to Violations of OSHA
specification or perfomance standards.
The proposed program 15
almed at encouraglng companles not only to meet OSHA standards, but
to have a safety educatlon and training program, to have sufflclent,
quallfled safety personnel, to have employee partlclpatlon 1n the
safety program, etc.
Whether or not a company adequately meets
these and other crlterla would. of courSE, be declded by OSHA.
Com?
panles given less than the top ratlng by OSHA could expect to hear
from thelr employees and thelr muons.
Equal Employment Dpportunlty
A Supreme Court declslon (McDonald Vs. Santa Fe Transportauom
afflrmed that whlte persons may seek rellef under Tltle v11 for
raclal dlscrlmlnatlon.
The court rules that the terms of Tltle v11
are not llmlted m dlscrlmlnatlon agalnst members of any partlcular
race and that the 1955 awn nghts Act was meant to state a broad
prlnclple of raclal
quallty that applies equally to whltes and
blacks.
Th1: declslon makes 1: llkely that whlte employees, espe*
clally tho:
who have personally lost out because of "afflmatlve
actlon," will become bolder 1n filing charges.
sun to be con*
sldered 15 the qu Stlon of whether or not mandated afflrmatlve
I
am 037159
actlon constltutes blas agalnst whltes.
1n Franks Vs. Bowman Transportatlon, the Supreme Court ruled
that an employee should be credlted Hlth a seniorlty date back to
his orlglnal date of appllcatlon as a remedy for a proven Tltle v11
Violation.
Although Tltle v11 expressly pemlts bona flde senlorlty
to rule 1n employment declslons, the Equal Employment Opportunlty
Commlsslon 13mm asserts that no senlorlty system can be' bona cm
15 1: deprlves a dlsproportlonate number of protectediclass members
of employment.
Th1: issue 15 5:111 pendlng on remand to the Thlrd
Clrcult by the v. 5. Court (Jersey Central Power & nght sassy.
N w Offlce of Federal Contract Compllance Programs 1017mm
regulatlons on Veterans' employment and revlsed regulatlons on
handlcapped persons' employment were lssued, deflnlng the obllgai
tlons of Federal contractors and subcontractors to take afflrmai
tlve actlon for the covered classes.
Proposed revlslon of regulatlons for enforclng executlve order
1124a aroused controversy because a number of clvll rlghts groups
see these as less demandlng than present regulatlons.
Many 1ndustry
representatlves, 1n fact. prefer the present regulatlons.
The pro*
posed revlslons would allow opccp to 1nvest1gate 1nd1v1dual charges
of dlscrlmlnatlon, such as presently handled by EEOC under Tltle VII,
and to assess back pay for classes where dlsparate treatment 15 found
by opccp.
The lssue whether 1124a authorlzes backipay demands 15
currently 1n litigation.
MCA on the recommendatlon of 1:5 Industrlal Relatlons Advlsory
Commlttee jolned other employers and employer assoclatlons 1n
fundlng the work of the recentlyiestabllshed Equal Employment Advlsor
Commlttee.
Th1: unlque organlzatlon 5111: two roles crltlcal m the
employer communlty not filled by any other organlzatlon:
patlon on an amlcus curlae basls 1n Significant lltlgatlon when 1m7
portant employer posltlons are at lssue (the councll has partlclpaed
1n more than 15 such cases 1n the last two yearsy; and 127 undert.1ng
and publlshlng demographlc and other studles to 35515: employers n
complylng mm thailaw and Spirit of the Equal Employment Opport nlty
laws.
Th1: organlzatlon 15 effectlvely fulfllllng 1:5 asslgned
mlsslon and our contlnued support 15 1mportant and recommended
Unlverslty Relatlons and College Recrultment
Statlstlcs based on the analysls of 1nformatlon recelved m
Since
1971, the number of chemlsts graduatlng from college has he d falrly
constant, but the number of chemlcal englneers has been de 1n1ng
AlChE, ACS. and the Englneers Joint Councll 1nd1cate that,
am 037150
r
Since 1970.
Therefore. a shortage of chemlcal englneers 15 expent"
for at least the next couple of years.
:I
Some recent statlstlcs. however, indicate a rather noable
sultchover of sophomores and junlors 1nto englneerln dlsclpllnes,
whlch mlght end the shortage of chemlcal englneers sonar than
antlclpated.
1
Female BS chemlstry graduates 1n 1973 amounted m 7.9% of
the total graduatlng.
Th1: 1ncreased to 20.9% 1n 1975.
Female
chemlcal englneerlng graduates 1ncreased from 2 9% 1n 1973 to
Mlnorlty chemlcal englneers are 5:111 extremal
few, and will amount to sllghtly more than 1% .5 the total graduates
1n 197a.
Internatlonal Labor Drganlzatlon
For a number of years members of our Commltte have malntalned
contact mm the ILD through the Internatloal Chemlcal Employers
Labor Relatlons Commlttee, whlch 1: 1n eff-ct the caucus for ILD
purposes of chemlcal employers throughout he world.
Th1: year was
of partlcular 1mportance, because there as held 1n February 1n
Geneva an ILD Chemlcal 1ndustr1es Comml ee meetlng, the flrst Since
1959.
lee all ILD meetlngs, thls was organl ed on a tripartlte
basls 7 mm labor. management and govrnment representatlves.
Some 23 natlons took part 1n the Com ttee meetlng, each
delegatlon conslstlng of two from ma agement, two from labor, and
two from government.
Davld c. Wllllams of the MCA staff .nd I
were the v. 5. management represenatlves.
Two areas of dlscusslon were 3551 ed to the meetlng: the
chemlcal 1ndustr1es and thelr wor mg envlronment; and the manpower
aspects of establlshlng chemlcal 1ndustr1es 1n developmg countrles.
The report of the meetlng 15 on 11s at the MCA offlce.
In
both areas of dlscusslan. ltem- of controversy between labor and
manag men: arose.
mm regard to the report on he worklng envlroni
ment, the employers successf lly reslsted a unlon drlve for an
endorsement of jolnt health .nd safety commlttees mm declsloni
maklng powers, maintaining hat they should have consultatlve
functlons only,
1n the manpower report, t - employers successfully
reslsted a unlon drlve to a statement dlscouraglng the practlce of
contractlng out or subcotractlng jobs, 1n partlcular contracts to
provlde labor.
cm 037151
Apart from thelr work m the reports, the employers were also
successful, mm the elp of the Amerlcan unlon delegates, 1n
kllllng a resolutlon -ffered by Communlsts among the worker
delegates, seeklng U launch an attack upon multlnatlonal corporai
tlons.
At thls tune. 1: 1 problematlcal whether the Unlted States
will remaln 1n the ILD. However. the Chamber of ComerCE,Hh1ch
represents Us man.gement 1n the ILD, has taken the posltlon that,
so long as we ar- members, we should be fully actlve, partlcularly
1n seeklng needs refoms.
Th1: appears to e the proper posltlon
for MCA :9 mal aln.
NLRB Developme ts
The NLRB Geneal Counsel 1: havlng some success mm ms 1nter
pretatlon of he Freedom of Informatlon Act.
The Federal ourts
have held tat an employer, agalnst whom unfalr labor practlce prose dlngs are pendlng before the NLRB, 15 not entltled, under the
Freedom of nformatlon Ash, :9 the dlsclosure of statements of
wltnesses btalned by Board agents durlng the course of the 1nvest1
gatlon 1no the underlylng charges.
There ha been a
plethor. of lltlgatlon on thls polnt.
The NLR' has won some and
lost 5. e; however. at thls tune, the General Counsel has prevalled
1n'mos of the litigation.
The um; Chalrman appolnted a Task Force about one year ago.
1:: '0}: was to undertake a revlew and evaluatlon of the exlstlng
str turE, practlces, procedures, rules and regulatlons for the
1nvst1gatlon, prosecutlon, hearlng, declslon and enforcement of
Cass ﬁlled mm the Natlonal Labor Relatlons Board.
T » Task
Free has been 1n exlstence for one year and appears to be dolng
. rather thorough job.
cm 037152
mum: E
R TO THE BOARD 017 ummmns
MANUFA us CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
GEORGE mm , CHAIRMAN
CHEMICAL REGULAT ADVISORY COMMITTEE
FEBRUARY 9,
1977
The Chemlcal Regulatlons Advlso ommlttee (mum 15 most
1ntensely actlve 1n preparlng draft 05315 for the Envlroni
mental Protectlon Agency's 13pm use, cm 1:: Offlce of
Toxlc Substances sty, 1n draftlng regulatlon d deflnltlons
requlred on a tune schedule establlshed by the Toxl stances
Control Act.
A serles of weekly meetlngs provlded EPA mm
abbr Vlated Vlews on baslc concepts.
At EPA publlc meetlngs
December 14 and 15, prepared statements were read before an
audl nee of 7m.
Later. statements were presented on more
detalled sectlons and lssues of the law before smaller EPA
sponsored meetlngs.
In mldiJanuary, MCA Vlews were developed
for presentatlon to EPA on twelve "records and reports" lssues
dellneated by EPA.
In these and the weekly meetlngs, the Vlews
presented were largely tentatlve, but 1ncreaslngly convergent
I
on workable understandlng through 1nteractlon Hlth EPA.
A5 EPA
further clarlfles 1:5 strategles, thls frequency of meetlngs 15
llkely m 1ncrease, to complete luvplementatlon 1n 1977 as requlr d by law.
“The results of these sesslons are manlfest 1n changed EPA
posltlons.
For example, EPA'S earller preference for a 51mple
numerlcal 11m: to "small quantltles for research and develop*
ment" has shlfted m MCA'S Vlew that flexlblllty 15 needed to
reflect reallstlc dlsslmllarltles between dlverse 1ndustr1es and
diff rent stages 1n research.
The agreed control 15 that the
manufacture or processlng of such Varled quantltles be supervlsed
by professlonally tralned personnel 1nformed about the health and
safety aspects of the speclflc materlal.
sun to be resolved 15
the procedure for dlstrlbutlon or dlsposal of plantiscale trlal
quantltles.
Another example of progress 15 EPA'S dropplng 1:5 proposal
that impurities of substances be reported Hlth annual productlon
Volumes.
The EPA staff flnally agreed that 1:: proposal would
not meet cost/beneflt analysls.
cm 037191
2
Perhaps the most creatlve proposal tentatlvely accepted by
EPA 15 the system MCA proposed to malntaln confldentlallty of
the 1dent1ty of certaln substances consldered to be bona flde
trade secrets,
codlng identities by qualltatlve empirical
formula and molecular welght, thls proposal has earned Inltlal
support by envlronmentallsts.
Volunteer company members, 1n addltlon m cmc...s membep
shlp of thlrty, have been readlly accepted at work group levels,
assurlng effectlve MCA representatlon 1n these frequent EPA
worklng sesslons.
The January lssue of MCA News carrles a story
and plcture of one of the work groups actlvely preparing post
tlons on the development of the sectlon sum 1nventory 115: of
exlstlng chemlcals.
Slmultaneously, three reglonal semlnars have been organlzed
to help companles prepare for compllance.
The flrst of these
was held February 2 1n Phlladelphla, Pennsylvanla and was hlghly
successful 1n terms of attendance and of the number of searchlng
questlons asked.
You may Wish to alert your mm, and fariwest
assoclates of the next two meetlngs, February 23 at St. Louls,
Mlssourl, and March 10 at San FranclsCD, Callfornla.
cm 037192
Exhlblt F
MCA Government Relatlons Commlttee Report
to the Board of Dlrectors
February a, 1977
Don A. Goodall. chalman
A major premlse of thls report 15 that busmess 15
not as 1nfluentlal 1n Washlngton as we would llke 1: m
be nor as 1nfluentlal as we must be 15 any Vlable form
of prlvate enterprlse 15 to be preserved 1n thls country.
1: was not too many years ago that busmessmen were
llstened m Hlth conslderable attentlon by those members
of Congress who wore elther a Republlcan or Southern Demoi
crat label.
But that 15 no longer the case. What happened?
When I flrst came to Washlngton 1n 1959 one of the
power houses on the 3111 was Judge 5mm of Virginia, am
Id school Southern Democrat and head of the then allpowerful House Rules Commlttee.
If he declded he dldn't
want a mu passed, he wouldn't give 1: a rule pemlttlng
1: to go to the House floor,
15 the pressure got too
gr at. he just went down to his 55m to as he used to
I'm not saylng thls was the rlght way to run the
government.
But 1: was a tune when busmessmen had more
1nfluence 1n Congress than we have today.
But that day
went out mm the onsiman. onsivote drlve that took place
more than a decade ago, and for a Varlety of other reasons.
For example, the polltlclzlng of labor unlons was
another contrlbutlng factor.
Beginning 1n 1949 mm estabi
llshment of the Commlttee on Polltlcal Educatlon. labor
moved 1nto the polltlcal ring 1n 3 mg way, convlnced
that 1: could wln 1n state leglslatures and the Congress
what 1: could not wln at the bargalnlng table.
Labor
money and labor manpower are now major factors 1n congre57
slonal electlon campalgns.
And Labor's lobbylng muscle
on Capltol 3111 15 the envy of those of us on the busmess
slde.
I
Televlslon 15 another factor that has changed the
process of selectlng and 1nfluenc1ng Members of congress.
The medlum puts a premlum on an appearance of freshness,
c youthful Vigor and Vitality, and on the ability to
artlculate 1deas.
Furth rmorE, the wlde exposure TV gives
cm 037193
to candldates tends to open up the selectlon process.
Another and more recent development has been the rlse
of publlc 1nterest groups.
They are dedlcated and per*
severlng.
A Member of Congress must be responslve to
thelr pressures or else he'll 61nd hlmself faclng more
competltlon for his seat 1n the next prlmary and general
electlons.
Buslness has not been totally unresponslve to these
changlng factors. mm the rlse of mg government and
mg labor after WWII, some large companles opened Wash?
lngton offlces to assure that thelr Vlews were bemg
conveyed to Congress and the Admlnlstratlon.
At the
same tune that the Washlngton corporate offlce was bemg
developed, by a relatlve handful of companles, 1 must add,
there was a parallel development of the trade assoclatlon
as an 1nstrument for communlcatlng Hlth government.
In
the last two decades, trade assoclatlons have become as
much a Washlngton growth phenomenon as government 1tself.
And flnally, Within the last few years we have even
seen the cm comlng m Washlngton to engage 1n threat
lobbylng where an lssue was of such paramount unportance
to the cozporatlon that 1: merlted his personal attentlon.
Th1: technlque became so unportant, 1n fact, that the
Buslness Roundtable was conned expressly to assure organlzed
cm 1nvolvement 1n the lobbylng effort.
But the Washlngton corporate offlce and the trade
assoclatlon and the cm as lobbylsts are not totally
responslve to today's need.
What busmess lacks 15 a grassroots Volce.
Many
Members of Congress are candld 1n saylng thls to your
Washlngton corporate representatlve.
nght or wrong.
Members of Congress are telllng us that oplnlons from
the corporate board room no longer carry the welght they
once dld.
In the Vernacular of Capltol 3111, they ask
"How many Votes have you got?"
Unfortunately, too many 1n busmess fall to under?
stand that m a polltlclan the Vote tally on electlon day
:15 the endiall and berall. 1n the same manner as 15 to
you the bottom llne on your corporate flnanclal statement.
I
am 037194
3
How do we get a grassroots Volce on Capltol 3111?
We start by developmg two resources that presently are
largely untapped by busmess employees and stockholders.
First, we give our employees an understandlng of
how our busmesses work; an understandlng of the klnd of
governmental cllmate that must exlst for preservatlon of
prlvate enterprise; and an understandlng of how thelr
personal welfare relates to that of the corporatlon.
Lest anyone assume that thls 15 not a bonaflde need;
I quote from the January lssue of The Conference Board
magazme; whlch 551d of the Amerlcan people: they
mlsunderstand the relatlonshlps between prices and costs
and between real wages', productlvlty and capltal 1nvesti
ment; they overestlmate the level of corporate proflt
marglns; and they belleve that 1: 15 busmess; not people;
who pays the corporate 1ncome tax."
If we help our employees understand these things;
then they will see that thelr Congresslonal representatlves
understand them.
The stockholder 15 not so much 1n need of economc
ducatlon as he 15 of belng 1nformed about how prospectlve
government actlons will affect the return on his 1nvestment.
Once he has that informauom; communlcatlon Hlth Congress
will take care of 1tself.
Let me lllustrate what I'm saylng mm a true story.
1: 1nvolves Burt Talent“; 3 sevenitem member of the House
of Representatlves from Callfornla untll ms defeat last
November.
Mr. Talcott Voted 1n llne mm the busmess
communlty posltlon on lssues about an percent of the tune.
Conversely; labor gave mm only a 13 percent favorable
Vote ratlng.
In October 1975 a delegatlon of Callfornla busmessmen
met Hlth the Callfornla congresslonal delegatlon to express
1:: Vlews on then pendlng leglslatlon.
Afterwards; Mr.
Talcott wrote to these busmessmen.
Let me quote from that
letter:
"A5 representatlves of the people; w cannot (1n 3
practlcal or polltlcal sensey support an issue; or 3
cm 037195
b111, wlthout support of people 7 the people
we dlrectly represent.
We need support as you
need a market.
Your 31m must be 'the people“.
There 15 no easy
way to leapfrog them to persuade a group of leg?
lslators.
You can. you must, begln by persuadlng your employees*
Vour 1nvestors who are our constltuents.
They
pack the polltlcal clout.
They can be moblllzed;
but I. as a leglslator, cannot do 1: W at least
wlthout Vour help.
perhaps one of your unlon leaders should have
appeared mm you.
One unlon leader would have
unpressed more than half of our delegatlon....
Mr. Talcott's advlce to the Callfornla busmessmen
was echoed by Rep. Barber conable of New York, one of the
brlghtest and most capable members of the House, when he
spoke not long ago to a group of Pflzer management personnel;
He counselled Pflzer to talk to 1:5 own people so that they
would understand why Mr. conable takes the posltlons he
does:
wlthout such backup, Mr. conable 15 Vulnerable.
Mr. Talcott's reference to a unlon leader doesn't mean
that unlon leaders are more persuaslve than busmessmen.
1: Simply means that from a congressman's perceptlon, unlon
spokesmen presently represent more Votes than we do.
That perceptlon 15 certalnly true 1n Mr. Talcott's
case.
He's no longer 1n Congress, thanks to labor unlon
and envlronmentallst polltlcal clout.
Bryce Harlow. counsellor to Presldents and Procter &
Gamble's Washlngton representatlve, has an 1nterest1ng
concept of thls matter of perceptlons.
He says that when
a polltlclan looks at you as a company executlve, or me
as a Washlngton representatlve, or at MCA, he looks through
us as though we were a wlndow.
He wants to see what 15
behlnd us to detemlne 15 we can hurt mm or help mm.
Too often. the polltlclan sees nothlng behlnd us and,
when he does. he knows he can 1gnore our Vlews.
cm 037195
5
5d much then for the need for grassroots support
15 our posltlons are to prevall 1n Washlngton.
1: 15
not my 1ntent nor have we tune for the mechanlcs of
how thls Will be accompllshed.
Except that 1: Will not be done by sllck PR tech?
nlques nor by writing a check once a year to some organlzai
tlon that promlses you 1: can "educate the Amerlcan publlc
about free enterprlse".
Now let me shlft focus to another subject, but whlch
15 related to all that 1~ve 531d so far. llke one slde
of a com 15 related to the other.
Buslness cannot be persuaslve, elther to 1:5 own
employees or to Congress, 15 1: lacks credlblllty.
And busmess has a credlblllty problem stemmlng from
such thlngs as price flxlng, brlbery, and envlronmental
1nc1dents.
I do not belleve that. except for a few amoral
busmessmen, today's corporate leaders consclously
condone breaklng the law.
Rather. these thlngs happen
because not enough attentlon 15 paid to establlshlng
controls that will prevent them.
And so I make thls suggestlon:
that every company
have a system of 1nternal "audltlng" whlch has the express
purpose of 1dentlfy1ng for management potentlal problem
areas Hlthln the corporatlon.
x: 15 my bellef that
somewhere 1n any company there are always 1nd1v1duals
who know when the fine llne of lllegallty 15 bemg crossed,
or some practlce 15 bemg followed that 15 questlonable
from an envlronmental. safety or health Vlew.
There must
be a way for these people to report thelr concerns so
that management can take correctlve steps before lay
trlevable damage 15 done 77 both to the company and to
the busmess lmage.
I'm not advocatlng daigoodlsm.
Gulf's cm announced
recently that 1: has set up a system that gives 1:: duly
slonal flnance offlcers an opportunlty to report problem
Another MCA company. X'm told, has recently lusty
tuted an audltlng procedure 1n the health and safety area.
So. thls 15 a practlcal suggestlon.
cm 037197
In summary, I have suggested to you that we should
do two thlngs to help preserve prlvate enterprlse; flrst,
enllst the partlclpatlon of our employees and stockholders
and. second, establlsh an 1nternal method for identifying
potentlal problem areas.
If you feel that these sugges*
tlons have merlt, the Government Relatlons Conmlttee 1:
ready to work Hlth you 1n deslgnlng a model program whlch
you can adapt to your own operatlons.
1yy1
I
I
1
1
1
cm 037199
Exhlblt u
REPORT BY THE DIRECTOR OF sovmwmm RELATIONS
WILLIAM M. sTov‘ER
APRIL 12, 1977
cousmss m RECESS BUT ACTIVITY commxms AT HIGH LEVEL
The Congress 15 currently 1n 3 "dlstrlct work perlod", a term
now used to descrlbe the Easter Recess, from whlch they return
next Monday, Aprll 13. There has been much recent actlvlty,
however. and more 1mportant work awalts. The taxatlon portlon of
the Presldent's economlc stlmulus program has been approved by
the HouSE, and the Senate Commlttee Verslon 15 now ready for th
floor. Amendments to both the alr quallty and water quallty laws
are approachlng the latter stages of conslderatlon.
Both the 5 hate
and House have recently approved detalled codes of ethlcs governi
mg the conduct of the Members. Labor has sustalned a suzprlslng
defeat 1n House rejectlon of common sltus plcketlng leglslatlon,
a defeat whlch ralses questlons about the Carter Admlnlstratlon's
relatlonshlp Hlth organlzed labor and prospects for other laborbacked mus.
At the Whlte HouSE, the actlvlty has been equally 1ntense.
The Presldent recently Signed 1nto law the government reorgamr
atlon mu he has long sought. A comprehenslve Admlnlstratlon
proposal on electlon reform has been sent to the Congress.
In
the near future. Mr. Carter 1: expected to send three more major
messages to Capltol 3111, one deallng Hlth 1nflatlon, another on
his natlonal energy program and a mum on the envlronment.
ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL MESSAGES EXPECTED soon
Accordlng to
mental message to
prellmlnary draft
publlc, the flnal
the orlglnal Lunsftable, the Presldent's envlroni
Congress was due on Aprll 1, but although a
from the Councll on Envlronmental Quallty became
text has not been lssued.
cm 037230
I
2
t
1
Moreover. there are, Signs that the delay 15 due, at least 1n
part, to potentlal confllcts mm elements of another major
Presldentlal program 7 the energy message, scheduled to be dellvered
by the Presldent Aprll 20.
The close 1nterrelatlonsh1p and tradeoffs between energy and envlronmental concerns are well recognlzed,
as 15 the polltlcal Volatlllty of each, factors whlch may have led
to late modlflcatlons.
The draft envlronmental message wrltten for the Presldent by
cm centers around 12 lssues: oll pollutlon preventlon, air and
water pollutlon control, protectlon of life and health, resource
conservatlon and recovery, assessment and unprovement of envlronmental laws, energy, natural resources, llvlng resources, global
envlronment, urban envlronment, and parks, recreatlon and wllderness. Early reports on the initial lDDipage draft 1nd1cated that
1: offered llttle 1n the way of compromlses or trade*offs 1n the
1nterest of 1ncreased energy supply.
The energy message has apparently undergone some revlslon
1n recent days, mm rumors of a move away from mandatory acrosstheﬁaoard efflclency standards for 1ndustry, and toward efflclency
standards for 1ndustrlal equlpment by worklng Hlth the manufacturers.
Regardless. 1: 15 certaln that the mandatory approach 15 5:111
favored by some vocal and 1nfluentlal Members of Congress, and that
Voluntary 1ndustrlal efflclency programs or conservatlon efforts
will come under attack. The Carter plan 15 also expected to call
for a retroflt program to weatherlze homes, performanceﬁaase
bulldlng codes for new bulldlng types, and energyiefflclency standards
for large appllances. Other posslbllltles 1nclude a surtax on
"gasﬂguzzllng" Vehlcles, hlgher fuel economy goals for new cars
and a standby 1ncrease 1n the Federal gasollne tax.
Petroleum
controls will probably contlnue and Vigorous efforts are llkely
to reduce the use of natural gas as a fuel.
MCA TASK snow PREPARING woman on WATER QUALITY LEGISLATION
Looklng ahead toward future opportunltles for needed amendment
of the Federal Water Pollutlon Control ACt, an MCA task group has
developed an actlon plan whlch will soon be launched.
Th1: program 15 the work of the MCA Intercomlttee Task Group
on Water Quallty Leglslatlon, whlch 15 chalred by Sam Plckard,
Vice presldent of Monsanto, mm Wllllam s. Sheath, Chalman of
the Board of vmon Carblde actlng as Senlor Advlsor. The 31m 15
to marshal the communlcatlons skllls, local unpact and pertlnent
data of the chemlcal 1ndustry so as to present a compelllng case
to the Congress when major water quallty leglslatlon 15 next conCMA 037231
:I
1
t
1
3
sldered. No dates are presently set for Congresslonal revlew, but
we are movlng aggresslvely now, both to 1nsure our preparedness
and to add unpetus to the amendlng effort 1tself.
I
The focal polnt of the Task Group's work 15 thls:
there 15 a
need to evaluate current and projected accompllshments 1n cleanlng
up the natlon's waters before movlng on to the 1993 requlrement
for 1nstallatlon of "Best Avallable Technology" controls. We
belleve and will argue that once the 1977 standards (Best Practlcable
Technology) are met by all sectors, 1: may not be 1n the natlonal
1nterest to proceed to the technologyibased 1993 standards 1n all
cases.
t
And so, the multkcaceted actlon program bemg reached places
1:: stress on our 1ndustry's commltment to achlevlng flshable,
swunmable waters by 1993 7 and flshable, swlmmable waters 1: the
stated goal of the Federal Water Pollutlon Control Act (P.L. 9275007.
I
I
1
I
I
The actlve program of communlcatlons, preparatlon, and datacollectlon drafted by our Task Group will be set 1n motlon thls
month by a letter from Mr. Drlver to the executlve contacts of
MCA member companles. Here 15 1:5 outllne:
1: encourages actlve partlclpatlon of CED'S, mlddlemanagers and employees by provldlng readyitoiuse infoz‘nk
atlon 7 speech materlal, artlcles for publlcatlons,
data analyses, etc.
1: encourages development of speclflc local data by each
company 7 perhaps even at each locatlon 7 whlch Will be
readlly complled, readlly understandable and readlly
applled to our baslc arguments.
1: encourages dlalogue Hlth a broad range of constltuencles
and publlcs, 1nclud1ng Congressmen, local communltles,
publlc 1nterest groups, labor, the medla, and others.
I
1
fl
mule not B'Certalnty, we belleve there 15 a posslblllty for
. constructlve amendment of the Federal Water Pollutlon Control Act
' durlng the 95th Congress.
If we are to have a reasonable opportunlty
1 to achleve a measure of mldicourse correctlon, 1: 15 essentlal that
1 all member companles respond Vlgorously.
1 TAXES AND THE EcoNoMIc STIMULUS
I
on Monday, March 29, the Senate Flnance Commlttee ﬁlled the
I report on 1:: Verslon of the taxatlon aspects of Presldent Carter's
economc stlmulus program, a. R. 3477, the Tax Reductlon and SlmpllflCMA 037232
4
catlon Act of 1977, There 15 uneaslness about the Vote count. how*
ever. and the Senate leadershlp deferred floor conslderatlon untll
after Easter Recess,
The key questlon appears to be the 550 tax
rebate but an addltlonal compllcatlon 15 the apparent backilash
among Democratlc members who resent Mr. Carter's recent cuts 1n
state water projects.
Insofar as 1ndustry 15 concerned, the major dlfferences between
House and Senate mus thus far are 1n the tax 1ncent1ves area.
The House Verslon provldes only for a new jobs credlt of 51,590
for each new employee, Hlth a Ceiling of 540,000 credlt for each
company. The Senate Verslon gives companles an option to take a
new jobs credlt somewhat 51ml“ :9 the one 1n the House b111, or
to choose the 1nvestment tax credit, 1ncreased from 10% m 12%.
The optlon was contalned 1n the orlglnal Admlnlstratlon proposal.
A major floor flght 15, of course, expected on the 550 tax
rebate. but another key questlon Will be Senator Javlts... expected
amendment to substltute a pemanent reductlon 1n personal 1ncome
taxes for the rebate. Th1: approach should recelve solld support
from the 33 Senate Republlcans, but 1: 15 doubtful that enough
Democrats will joln 1n. Mr. Carter has hlnted a Veto of any mu '
contalnlng a tax reductlon because the Admlnlstratlon conslders
that a central part of 1:5 recom package expected thls Fall.
Conservatlve Democrats may sponsor an amendment to delete the
rebate wlthout substltutlng any permanent tax reductlon.
Another floor amendment flght could arlse over a mu 1ntroi
duced by Senator Frank Church, 5. 1013, whlch would temlnate
the deferral of taxatlon of forelgn source 1ncome. There 15 a
good posslbllty that he may propose the substance of thls mm
as an amendment to the Tax Reductlon and Simplification Act durlng
floor conslderatlon.
If Senator Church does Introduce ms "deferral" amendment,
there 15 a real danger that 1: may carry.
Last year, a slmllar
amendment was defeated by the margln of a smgle Vote.
Since
the House defeated the common sltus plcketlng b111, many Senators,
as well as Representatlves, are anxlous for an opportunlty to
cast a "proilabor" Vote. Labor 15 on record opposmg the
deferral concept, contendlng 1: encourages the export of jobs,
and so the Church amendment mlght furnlsh Senators an opportunlty
to mend thelr labor fences.
We have alerted the members of our Government Relatlons and
Tax Pollcy Commlttees, asklng that they urge Senators mm whom
they have a constltuent relatlonshlp to Vote agalnst such an
amendment.
cm 037233
3
5mm: 017 THE ARAB BDYCDTT summon
There are two 1mportant areas of actlvlty Hlth respect to
the Arab Boycott Situation, the flrst belng 1n exlstlng tax law.
Under the Tax Refom Act of 1976, the scicalled Rlblcoff amendment
denled Varlous tax beneflts m companles partlclpatlng 1n or
cooperatlng mm an 1nternatlonal boycott.
The Treasury Depart*
ment has subsequently lssued two sets of guldellnes relatlng to
the boycott provlslons of the \ct.
Our Tax Pollcy Commlttee has studled these guldellnes and 15
of the opinion that both the boycott provlslons of the Tax Reform
Act and the guldellnes themselves need further clarlflcatlon.
We have. therefore. arranged for a meetlng Aprll 14 mm Treasury
offlclals m dlscuss the problem. on Aprll 29, ms 15 holdlng
a publlc hearlng on the guldellnes. We expect elther to request
to testlfy or m submlt a statement at that hearlng, and Hill
determlne whlch approach to take after our meetlng Hlth Treasury.
The second area 1n whlch the Arab Boycott questlon 15 bemg
dlscussed 1: 1n pendlng amendments to the Export Admlnlstratlon
Act. The House Internatlonal Relatlons Commlttee and the Senate
Banklng Commlttee have both reported mus amendlng the Export
Admlnlstratlon Act to prohibit v. s. companles from partlclpatlng
1n forelgn boycotts.
The Senate Banklng Commlttee ordered 5. 59 reported on
Aprll 5 and expects to brlng 1: to the floor soon after the
Easter Recess.
The House Internatlonal Relatlons Commlttee reported a
clean b111, 3.x. 5840, on Aprll a, and will request a rule on
Aprll 19. House floor conslderatlon 1: expected soon thereafter.
Though slmllar, the antkboycott provlslons of the House and
Senate mus have some dlfferences:
The Senateﬁalll would provlde an exceptlon for v. s. flrms
operatlng 1n boycottlng countrles, allowlng them to comply Hlth
local law mm respect to actlvltles excluslvely Within those
countrles. The House mu contalns no such provlslon.
The House mu will allow v. 5. persons to comply mm a
boycotter's deslgnatlon of a v. s. transactlon provlded that thls
exceptlon would not apply 1n cases where the v. s. flrm "has
actual knowledge that the sole purpose of the deslgnatlon 15 to
unplement the boycott". The Senate provlslon on unllateral
selectlon contalns no such limitation.
cm 037234
5
THE CARTER sovmmmm REDRGANIZATIDN PLAN
on Aprll a, Presldent Carter Signed 1nto publlc law a major
Government reorganlzatlon b111, thus movlng toward fullflllment
of a prlnclpal campalgn promlse:
reorganlzatlon of the sprawllng
and overlapplng Federal bureaucracy.
Every Presldent Since Hoover has had reorganlzatlon authorlty,
but the law was allowed to explre on Aprll 1, 1973, because of
the Watergate controversy and Congresslonal dlspleasure over what
1: consldered usurpatlon of power by the Executlve branch.
Durlng hearlngs 1n the House Government Dperatlons Commlttee,
Chalrman Jack Brooks (DiTX7 was adamantly opposed to glvlng the
Presldent thls power wlthout a tlght Congresslonal leash. He
wanted a mu whlch would requlre Congresslonal approval of any
proposed reorganlzatlon plan.
Brooks clalmed the leglslatlve
Veto approach was unconstltutlonal.
(The Presldent has Veto
power. Congress the power to overrlde.)
Presldent Carter. however.
succeeded 1n convmcmg Government Operatlons Commlttee members
of the need for reorganlzatlon powers much the same as those hel
by precedlng Presldents.
Brooks was forced to relent and the
House eventually passed the mm on March 29 by a Vote of 395 22.
The Senate had no problem mm the reorganlzatlon lssue and
passed 1:5 mm March 3 by a Vote of 9470.
leferences were qulckly resolved 1n the jolnt conference,
and the followlng provlslons became law:
~ Presldentlal authorlty to submlt government reorganlza lon
plans for three years from enactment date;
~ plans to be effectlve automatlcally unless Either ho 5e
Vetoes Within an days followlng submlsslon;
~ Senate Governmental Affalrs and the House Governme t
Dperatlons Commlttees have jurlsdlctlon over all pl n5;
~ Congress may not amend a plan;
~ the Presldent estlmates cost 1ncreases or redu lons or
each plan and expected unprovement 1n efflclenc
~ 3 resolutlon of dlsapproval 15 m be 1ntrodu d autoi
matlcally as the Presldent submlts a plan; th resolutlon
would go to each government operatlons comm es, and 15
not reported Hlthln 45 days, 1: would be an matlcally
dlscharged, whereupon any member could the call 1: up;
cm 037235
~ the Presldent may amend a plan Within days of submlsslon
or wlthdraw 1: Hlthln an days;
~ each plan deals mm only one area 0 "loglcally conslstent
subject matter";
~ no more than three plans may be be re the Congress at any
one tune;
~ plans may not abollsh, merge or sate departments or
1ndependent regulatory agencles, r abollsh functlons
mandated by statute or extend or xpand functlons;
~ the 1ntent of Congress 15 exp ssed that the publlc should
be 1nvolved 1n reorganlzatlon ans.
Durlng the blllislgnlng cerem y Presldent Carter 531d the
reorganlzatlon of his own Ex utlve Offlce would be the flrst
order of busmess, and that e hoped to make 1: a "model". He
531d he would not submlt a further reorganlzatlon plans before
Jun because 1: Will be a " ong, wellithoughtiout process".
CHEMICAL mum MAY 10 FE mm: SENATE warp
The Senlor v. s. Senato from Alaska. The Honorable Ted
Stevens, Will be speak and guest of honor at the next edition
of MCA'S CHEMICAL mu , Tuesday, May 10. The luncheon program
will be held 1n the ncoln Ballroom of the Washlngton Hllton
Hotel. Washlngton, . a.
Senator Stevens 15 he Republlcan wmp of the Senate, the
secondiranklng pa y leadershlp post behlnd Mlnorlty Leader
Howard Baker of nnessee. He serves on three unportant Senate
Commlttees: App oprlatlons; Governmental Affalrs; and Commerce,
Sclence and Tr sportatlon. He 15 also one of the 12 members of
the Technolog Assessment Board, the Congresslonal body that
oversees the ctlvltles of the Offlce of Technology Assessment.
Prlor to so ng m the Senate 1n 1959, Ted Stevens had a
dlstlnguls d law career 1n Alaska and became v. s. Attorney
there. He ater worked 1n Washlngton, u. (1., as a top alde to the
Secretar of Interlor when Alaskan statehood was belng sought.
He 15 a 950 graduate of Harvard Law School.
cm 03 35
a
Durl my World War II Senator Stevens served mm General Clalre
Che ault 1n Chlna as a member of the "Flylng Tlgers", and was
de orated Elva tunes.
3 and his Wife, the former Anne Cherrlngton, of Denver,
ave Elva chlldren.
MA 037237
Exhibit E
upon TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
mmmmmms CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
WILLIAM R. CHALKER, CHAIRMAN
AIR QUALITY commm
APRIL 12, 1977
1: 15 a prlvllege to appear before you.
In dlscusslng the
actlvltles of the A11“ Quallty Commlttee, I Will hlghllght a key
problem mm the Clean Alr Act and mandatory efforts; polnt out
flaws 1n the EPA 1ntezpretlve rullng on offset of hydrocarbons
1n nonattalnment areas? alts our 1nvolvement 1n the EPA synthetlc
organlc chemlcal 1ndustry study; touch on our MCA hydrocarbon
control cost study and oxldant eplsode study; and, descrlbe several
new areas of comlng concern.
The regulatory tempo 1n the alr pollutlon Eleld keeps rlslng,
but our objectlve remalns the same to get pemlts to con*
struct plants or modlfy exlstlng ones expedltlously and Hlthln
reallstlc envlronmental constralnts.
1n golng down the permlt trall,
The
we face an everiwldenlng array of regulatlons and concepts.
declslons of control agencles are transcendlng thelr past areas
of concern and are 1nfluenc1ng such wldely dlfferent facets as
land uSE, life style, 1ndustrlal productlon technlques, and
return on 1nvestment.
1: 15 amazlng that we have coped as w 11
as we have Hlth thls complex Situation.
Dxldant A11“ Quallty Standard and Control Strategy
The oxldant or ozone air quallty standard 15 the focal polnt
of much of our current dllemma.
There are those who say there
15 too much ozone near the ground, and there are those who say
there 15 not enough 1n the stratosphere. All we have to do 15
restructure the atmosphere our problems are just about that
complex and the outcome just about that unclear.
You recelved
a brleflng on the Houston Area Dxldant Study from Mr. Flies and
others at your Board meetlng last month.
Our Commlttee trunks
1: 15 an unportant study and one that EPA will not be able to
1gnore.
I belleve 1: Will be useful to emphaslze several 35*
pests of the oxldant problem.
CMA 037239
EPA' s oxldant standard 15 bemg exceeded 1n every state
that has taken measurements.
1: 15 not a Texas problem alone.
Few belleve 1n the standard. 1nclud1ng Dr. Knelson, Dlrector
of EPAls Health Effects Research Laboratory.
The AP]: petition
to EPA. whlch MCA supports, questlons the standard and the con*
trol strategy to attaln the standard.
Best evldence 1nd1cates
the standard will not be changed Significantly.
However. EPA
strategy to attaln the standard 15 bemg tlghtened and Hill
requlre offsets for new sources.
For example, new hydrocarbon
emlsslons located 1n areas where the oxldant standard 15 not
bemg met must somehow accompllsh reductlons 1n exlstlng emlsi
slons to more than offset the added emlsslons.
Th1: problem
and EPA'S proposed offset solutlon are the result of Clean Alr
Act language.
Mr. Polzer's recent testlmony on behalf of MCA
before the Senate and House strongly emphaslzed the need for
rellef 15 orderly development 1n the natlon 15 to contlnue.
Actually, we are on strong technlcal ground 1n saylng that
oxldant 15 relatlvely insensitive to changes 1n hydrocarbons
and that hydrocarbons cannot be controlled sufflclently 1n
most places to attaln the oxldant standard.
Los Angeles 15 a
prune example.
In 25 years, that county has reduced hydro?
carbons from statlonary source emlsslons by sea and from Vehlcles
Last year, they exceeded the oxldant standard on over 100
days.
EPA knows we cannot attaln the standard 1n many places,
but thelr new strategy 15 to make progress towards 1: by attempti
mg to reduce high oxldant concentratlons 1n large metropolltan
areas and hence reduce the numbers of people at rlsk.
Th1:
phllosophy agrees Hlth MCA'S recent Congresslonal testlmony
urging Congress to modlfy the zero rlsk concept currently mi
herent 1n the Act.
There 15 technlcal evldence that we can
make progress but at enormous cost to control statlonary sources
and by unposltlon of drastlc curtallment of Vehlcles by an
unwllllng publlc.
There are potentlal envlronmental hazards,
however. to EPA emphasls on hydrocarbon controls.
The dE*
emphasls on controlllng oxldes of nltrogen, a partner 1n photoi
chemlcal reactlons, can cause the "smog" problem to spread further
1nto rural areas and lead to a bulldup of oxldes of nltrogen and
pose yet another potentlal health rlsk.
Th1: 15 preclsely what
15 happenlng 1n the areas contlguous to Los Angeles. MCA has
conveyed to EPA our Commlttee's bellef that hydrocarbon offset
15 unworkable.
CMA 037239
Whlle some adjustments 1n offset requlrements now appear
llkely, EPA 15 not abandonlng 1:5 broader thesls and has no*
tlfled 29 states to revlse thelr hydrocarbon control regulatlons
by m1d71978. We face publlc hearlngs 1n all these states.
Pres*
ently, 1: 15 unclear 15 or how the Assoclatlon should handle
these 1nd1v1dual states.
I certalnly recommend we gear up to
handle reglonal problems such as the 12 northeastern states surf
rently bandlng together to Hrlte unlfom hydrocarbon standards.
Clean Alr Act Amendments
Whlle I have mentloned problems Hlth nonattalnment of the
oxldant standard and offsets. we have concerns Hlth other 35*
pests of the Clean Alr Act.
MCA has been most actlve 1n testy
fylng, writing, and Visiting Congressmen and 1n meetlng mm
thelr staffs to seek all the amendments proposed 1n Mr. Polzer's
testlmony. At the moment, the Situation 15 too fluld to say
more than we are cautlously optlmlstlc that some of our concerns
are bemg heard and dealt wlth.
Synthetlc Drganlc Chemlcal Manufacturlng Industry Study
Another area of concern to us 15 the EPA study of the
synthetlc organlc chemlcal 1ndustry.* Thelr purpose 1: to
develop federal new source performance standards and gulde*
llne documents for states to use 1n developmg retroflt regui
latlons for exlstlng sources.
Th1: 15 a two to three year
effort.
EPA'S reasons for thls study are that organlcs form
photochemlcal oxldants and organlcs are toxlc mm some bemg
carclnogenlc.
EPA states that synthetlc organlc chemlcals contrlbute
10a of the total hydrocarbon emlsslons from statlonary sources.
They state that control hlnges primarily on proper plant deslgn
and operatlon that Hill requlre a depth of knowledge by EPA of
our operatlons that 15 unprecedented,
we have set up a task
group to handle thls and m coordlnate Hlth soCMA. A total of
about 40 chemlcals Will be studled. A flrst meetlng of our
task group Hlth EPA was held on January 21. Almost 1mmedlately,
the orderly processlon of thls program was upset to handle
benzene on an emergency basls because of strong Crltlclsm
agalnst EPA by the Envlronmental Defense Fund that benzene was
CMA 037240
a Significant health hazard and a carclnogen. A speclal MCA
task group to handle thls ltem alone met Hlth EPA on February 15.
Slnce thls 15 a smgle product, response to EPA 15 belng made on
an 1nd1v1dual company basls.
Eleven MCA member companles are
partlclpatlng.
EPA wants emlsslon data, amblent air data. and
Vlews on control technlques, etc. Attached to thls presentatlon
15 a tentatlve 115: of the next nine chemlcals and processes to
be consldered. We are settlng up task groups to handle them.
MCA Hydrocarbon Control Cost Study 7 By Foster u. Snell, Inc.
Your companles have been 1n recelpt of the Foster u. Snell, Inc.
hydrocarbon control cost questlonnalre for about three weeks. Al,
though 1: may not have reached your ears, I am sure your people
are fumlng over 1: because 1: 15 comprehenslve.
We have never at?
tempted anythlng m thls depth before, but then, we've never faced
557515 bllllon 1n 1nvestment cost for control of a smgle class of
pollutlon before.
I use these cost flgures mm some confldence
because my own company last year 1n 3 Similar type study estlmated
an 1nvestment cost of $350 mllllon m retroflt exlstlng hydro?
carbon sources 15 the toughest projected pollutlon control regui
latlons were adopted.
In many cases, thls study 15 golng m be
an eye opener and hopefully naya Valuable splnioff 1nformatlon
for use 1n your 1nd1v1dual companles. . 1: will show we dlscharge
a greater tonnage of hydrocarbons than we thought; that we do not
have a good estlmate on emlsslons from a number of sources; that
llkely the majorlty of our total poundage emlsslons derlve from
only a fractlon of our total sources.
The results can force
another look at raw materlal losses and perhaps spotllght more
candldates for waste heat recovery.
Further. there 15 a new EPA
dlrectlve that all states prepare a hydrocarbon emlsslon 1nventory
by mldiyear.
Flnally, management will be better able to judge
the cost unpact of proposed new hydrocarbon regulatlons. Lack of
emlsslon data last year posed a serlous problem to the New Jersey
Industrlal Advlsory Commlttee 1n evaluatlng, at the request of
the state, the flnanclal 1mpact of the Moodus Conference model
hydrocarbon regulatlon.
MCA 7 Dxldant Eplsode Study 7 By Radlan Cozporatlon
The study of amblent air oxldant durlng high and low coni
centratlon perlods and 1:5 relatlonshlp m the concentratlon of
1:5 prlnclpal precursors, oxldes of nltrogen and hydrocarbons.
CMA 037241
and thelr relatlonshlp, 1n turn, to hydrocarbon emlsslons 1n
ten metropolltan areas 15 proceedlng on schedule.
Results are
expected thls Sumner.
Atmospherlc Elsperslon Modellng
Proposed amendments to the Clean Alr Act call for the use
of atmospherlc dlsperslon modellng for use 1n evaluatlng 51g,
nlflcant deterloratlon. nonattalnment, etc. Argonne Natlonal
Laboratory held a Speclallst Conference for EPA 1n February to
develop consensus models to be lssued m the states as a further
tool to evaluate pemlts.
Our Commlttee had representatlon and
when the effort becomes more crystalllzed, He Will conslder
holdlng a workshop.
New Areas of Concern
EPA 15 revlslng the 51x exlstlng air quallty standards and
Will be addlng new ones.
Our Commlttee Will need medlcal and
epldemlologlcal input 15 we are to react.
Part of our problem
today, e.g., on oxldants, may be that our Assoclatlon and others
were not 1n 3 posltlon to comment Vlgorously when the several
standards were set 51x years ago.
Unless you object, 1: 15 my
1ntentlon to seek a nucleus of medlcal representatlon from your
companles m detemlne the feaslblllty of a rebuttal. A second
ltem needlng medlcal 1nput 15 advlce on the concentratlons 1n
the communlty envlronment that are consldered safe for all our
chemlcals.
The current procedure 15 m use the OSHA standards
and arbltrarlly take a percentage of them and call thls safe for
the publlc.
We Will have to do better than thls for benzene.
acrylonltrlle and eventually all the rest. We would plan to us
your aforementloned medlcal representatlves m gulde our Com?
mlttee 1n thls cruclal area also. A mum ltem 15 that relatlvely
llttle attentlon has been paid by control agencles to our emlsslons
durlng startiup and shutdowns, emergency releases, and fugitive
losses.
Varlous estlmates 1nd1cate they may be as large as our
normal emlsslons and control agencles are startlng to note thls.
We antlclpate greater regulatory attentlon to these types of emlsslons.
Some questlons of thls type appear 1n our hydrocarbon cost study.
CMA 037242
Concluslons
In concluslon. I understand the Board approved addlng a
General Counsel to the MCA Staff. Desplte the strength of
present staff support, we welcome thls and, bemg pushy, hope
the tune Will Come when an envlronmental lawyer 15 also hlred.
Lastly, the system wouldn't work wlthout the major contrlbutlons
of our Commlttee members.
I appreclate your maklng thls pos*
Slble.
Even so, we sometlmes feel llke a platoon flghtlng an
army.
ank you.
an 037243
ATTA 3mm
EPA s nthetlc Drganlc Chemlcal
Manufa turlng Industry Study
EPA we recently identified the followlng products and
process 5 as the flrst for whlch federal new source perfor7
mance st ndards Will be wrltten.
Product
Acrylonlt 11s
Ethylene u chlorlde
Ethylene o 1de
Ethylbenzen
Styrene
Formaldehyde
Malelc Anhyd 1de
Phenol/Aceto
Nltrobenzene
Process
soars Amoxldat on of Propylene
Ethylene nych orlnatlon
Dxldatlon of E ylene
Benzene Alkylat on
Ethylbenzene De ydrogenatlon
Sllver Catalyst, ngh Methanol
Benzene Dxldatlo
Cumene
Benzene Nltratlo
EPA has contracts mm Hydrosclence to develop the data
base for the regu atlons. An 1mportant 1nput of the study will
be measurement of roses: emlsslon sources.
Certaln member
companles can antl 1pate contacts from EPA and/or Hydrosclence
to set up such test .
CMA 037244
AGENDA
MEETING 017 THE MCA BOARD 017 ummmns
TAB
Opening Remarks and Introductlon of Guests
W Chalrman Donley
Approval of September 12, 1979, Mlnutes
W Chalrman Donley
Flnanclal Report W Treasurer Herrman
Flnance Commlttee Report W J. E. Burrell
Proposed Amendment to the Bylaws 77 Secretary Barackman
Report of Chalrman of the Board W E. Donley
Assoclatlon Actlv1t1e5**R. A. Roland
Government Relatlons Report 77 w. M. Stover
3
Report by General Counsel W E. B, Frost
4
Semlannual Meetlng W B. M. Barackman
New Busmess
Adjournment.
1
2
Next Meetlng of the Board of Dlrectors W 12:30 p. m. . Tuesday, January 9,
CMA 037502
2059
MINUTES of the two hundred seventleth meetlng of the Board of Dlrectors
of the Manufacturlng Chemlsts' Assoclatlon, Inc. , held at the Plnnacle
Dlrectors:
Secretary:
General Counsel:
Treasurer:
By Invltatlon:
Edward Donley, Chalman
Wllllam R. Barrett, Sr.
3. Barclay Morley
Wllllam a. Erlcker
Paul F. Drefflce
J. Earl Burrell
George F. Polzer
M. Blouke Carus
Seymour 5. Preston, III
Peter J. F555
Toy F. Reld
Wllllam J. Ferracone
Robert A. Roland
John T. Flles
Jack B. St. Clalr
Charles F. Fogarty
John P. Sachs
John M. Henske
Wllllam G. Slmeral
Wllllam E. Jackson
Charles W. Smith
Rlchard A. Jay
Eugene J. Sulllvan
Emerson Kampen
Raymond c. Tower
Wllllam c. Krumrel
Alexander B. Trowbrldge
Duncan J. MacLennan
Hugh B. Vanderbllt
James A. McGowan
3. Kent Vanderhoef
Robert L. Mltchell
Harrlette F. Wltmer
Alfred c. Stepan, Jr.
Bruce M. Barackman
Edmund B. Frost
Gary c. Herman
luster a. Ambros. BASF Wyandotte Corporatlon
E. M. Beavers. Rohm and Haas Company
& Company
a. w. Buchanan. Virginia Chemlcals Inc.
J. 5. Cosy, Hooker Chemlcal Corporatlon
Thomas a. Dabovlch. Morton Chemlcal Company,
A Dlvlslon of Morton Norwlch Products, Inc.
J. Moms Evans, PQ Corporatlon
Myron T. Foveaux. MCA
James M. G111, Ethyl Cozporatlon
Stephen L>. Goldsteln, 01m Corporatlon
Wllllam w. Hulsklng, Glyco Chemlcals, Inc.
George w. Ingle, MCA
Edward J. Klecka. MCA
Lester Krogh, Mlnnesota Mmmg and Manufacturlng
Company, Chemlcal Dlvlslon
Robert a. Malott. ma Corporatlon
Barry D. McNeeley, Eastman Kodak Company
CMA 037503
2059
By Invltatlon:
Max A. Mmmg, Borden Chemlcal Dlvlslon of
Borden. Inc.
Donald D. Pascal, Natlonal Starch and Chemlcal
Cozporatlon
Vlctor E. Peterson. MCA
Paul M. Pltts, ARCD/Chemlcal Company, Dlvlslon
of Atlantlc Rlchfleld Company
L. John Pollte, Jr. , Essex Chemlcal Corporatlon
P. c. Rellly, Rellly Tar and Chemlcal Cozporatlon
John E. Slavlck, MCA
Wllllam M. Stover, MCA
John G. Trltsch. MCA
Konrad M. Wels, Mobay Chemlcal Corporatlon
opmmc REMARKS AND mmouucnou 0F GUESTS
mm a speclal welcome to past dlrectors and other guests. Chalman
Donley opened the meetlng by calllng for selfilntroductlon of those present 1n
turn.
MINUTES 017 SEPTEMBER 12, 1979, MEETING
Mlnutes of the September 12, 1979, Board meetlng, as dlstrlbuted,
1nclud1ng the flnanclal statement for three months endlng August 31, 1979,
were approved.
FINANCIAL upon
A summarlzed flnanclal statement for Elva months endlng October 31,
1979, Exhlblt A, was revlewed by Mr. Herman. Notlng that assets totaled
approxlmately se. a mllllon, of whlch s4. 4 mllllon related to speclal proj7
ects, he emphaslzed that mm budget amendments thls year, we currently
have budgeted revenues of 54, 525, nun and total budget expenses of 55, 352, nun.
Assumlng no further budget changes, we are looklng forward to a budget
deflclt of $937,900 at the end of thls flscal year. The monthly Treasurer's
report for the perlod June 1, 1979 7 October 31, 1979 Will be mallet! mm the
Board mlnutes.
FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
As chalrman, Mr. Burrell revlewed the actlvltles of the Flnance Com?
mlttee 1n addresslng the 1mpact on expenses resultlng from the reorganlzatlon
of MCA. To data, thls would create the expected deficit of $937,900 mentloni
ed by Mr. Herman as a result of addltlonal fundlng approved by the Executlve
Commlttee. Th1: could 1ncrease m a deflclt of $1,253, nun 15 contemplated
addltlonal requests from MCA standlng commlttees were approved. Two
CMA 037504
2050
alternatlves for flnanclng the deflclt were presented to the Executlve Com?
mlttee W fundlng from reserves or levylng a speclal assessment. In the
comer approach, a deflclt of $1 million would reduce reserves m 25% of
the operatlng budget, whlle reserves would drop m 19% mm a deficit of
51. 3 mllllon as agalnst the general crlterla the Assoclatlon has followed of
a reserve of about 50%. mm the speclal assessment approach, at a
reserve level of 50% a deflclt of $1 million would requlre a speclal assessment
of 33a of current dues for each member and a deficit of $1.3 mllllon would re*
qulre a speclal assessment of 43%.
The Flnance Commlttee unanlmously recommended to the Executlve
Commlttee that the flscal year 1979779 deficit should be funded by utlllzatlon
of MCA'S reserves Hlth the crlterla that the operatlng reserves could not fall
below the 25% level. Th1: was approved by the Executlve Commlttee.
Mr. Donley then revlewed the reorganlzatlon of MCA, 1:: enhanced
advocacy role, and the 1ncreased commltments of member companles 1n
provldlng strong people to the new commlttees, 1n order to enable the
Assoclatlon to respond effectlvely to the 1ncreased pressures of governmental actlon. He sollclted response from the Board and all member com?
panles to the 1ncreased communlcatlons whlch Hill emanate from MCA so
that the Assoclatlons actlvltles can best reflect the 1nterests of the 1ndustry.
I
pnoposm AMENDMENT TO THE BYLAWS
Mr. Barackman advlsed that proposed Bylaws amendments enclosed
mm the notlce of meetlng would effect the necessary changes resultlng
from spllttlng the functlons of the SecretaryiTreasurer approved by the
Executlve Commlttee.
0N MOTION. duly made and seconded,
1: was
voTED: That the proposed amendments
to the Bylaws, as set fourth 1n Exhibit B,
be approved.
upon 017 CHAIRMAN 017 THE 13mm:
Mr. Donley's report 15 attached as Exhlblt c.
ASSOCIATION ACTIVITIES
Mr. Roland's report follows: The Chalrman's report 15 the flrst of
a serles of quarterly reports whlch Will be publlshed to the entlre MCA
membershlp.
CMA 037505
2051
”In the publlc relatlons area we had 12 company experts at
the Natlonal Assoclatlon of Farm Broadcasters conventlon 1n Kansas
City on hand to dlscuss 23 toplcs. 4a broadcasters taped 14a radlo
shows to be alred over nearly 1,500 radlo statlons coverlng about 75%
of the Unlted States. The program's cost of reachlng one person Varles
mm audlence slze and ranges from less than one and a half cents to a
thousandth of a cent.
W In a Visit Hlth Alfred Kahn. Chalman of the Councll on Wage
and Price Stablllty (cowpsy, he 531d he was agalnst wage/prlce controls
and would work for more effectlve and economlcal government 1n the
framework of regulatory reform. Because he 1nd1cated a wllllngness to
do so, a meetlng mm Mr. Kahn, together Hlth Mr. Barry Bosworth,
dlrector of cois, has been requested at whlch time the chemlcal mi
dustry problems, as embodled 1n the economlc and regulatory proflle
developed for the recent meetlng Hlth Commerce Secretary Kreps. would
be dlscussed 7 especlally 1n llght of the fact that the selectlon of 1975777
as base years for proflts and prices was unfortunate for many companles.
Meanwhlle Mr. Kahn asks for 1ndustry support of the announced wage/prlce
guldellnes.
W Another area of concern 1: chemlcal 1ndustry coordlnatlon mm
other assoclatlons. To effect this, the new posltlon of Dlrector of
Assoclatlon Liaison 15 bemg establlshed Hlthln MCA. Th1: move has been
applauded by some 20 assoclatlons mm whom 1: has been dlscussed. The
Dlrector Will be responslble for communlcatlng 1nformatlon regardlng
MCA'S posltlons, actlvltles and needs to other relevant 1ndustry trade
assoclatlons and groups whlle provldlng MCA mm 51ml“ 1nfomatlon from
them.
W The words "Manufacturlng Chemlsts Assoclatlon" don't accurately
reflect the membershlp of the 1ndustry assoclatlon for today's man 1n the
street. The name "Chemlcal Manufacturers Assoclatlon" (cum conveys
the 1dea that the assoclatlon 15 made up of cozporatlons, rather than persons,
who make the commodlty chemlcals. The Executlve Commlttee supports
thls name change. The matter will be placed on the agenda for the January
Board meetlng. The Executlve Commlttee recommends that 15 approved by
the Board. the entlre membershlp then be polled for thelr reactlon.
W Mr. Roland concluded his report Hlth a descrlptlon of the program
planned for the day followlng the Board meetlng.
GOVERNMENT RELATIONS upon
Mr. Stover's report, dlstrlbuted at the meeting,* 15 attached as Exhibit
D. Durlng his report he revlewed 1n detall the meetlng mm Commerce
Secretary Kreps and chemlcal 1ndustry spokesmen and also called attentlon
m the unportance of the questlon of 011 price regulatlon. Regardlng the latter,
CMA 037505
MCA has testlfled on the pricing lssue on numerous occaslons, 1n support
of any actlons whlch permit petroleum prices to rlse to world levels
through decontrol or phased removal of price controls. Th1: would eni
able prlmary energy prices to reflect replacement costs and provlde the
maxlmum incentlve to develop new resources and expand the supply base.
At the concluslon of Mr. Stover's report, Mr. Foveaux dlscussed
the Admlnlstratlon?s anuqnflamon program headed by Alfred Kahn, chalri
man of cois. He also descrlbed the establlshment of an MCA task
group charged Hlth monltorlng developments 1n the wage/prlce area;
guiding companles to sources of 1nfomatlon; proposlng MCA responses
as approprlate and recommendlng them for approval at the proper level;
and coordlnatlng communlcatlons as they are needed.
upon BY GENERAL COUNSEL
Mr. Frost's report 15 attached as Exhibit E.
BUSINESS mam
Report of Membershlp Commlttee
As chalrman, Mr. Polzer
reported the commlttee's havlng examlned the quallflcatlons of the company
named below and recommended 1:: electlon.
0N MOTION. duly made and seconded,
1: was
voTED: That Hatco Chemlcal Cozporatlon
be elected to membershlp 1n the Assoclatlon.
NEW BUSINESS
Mr. Donley advlsed that the Chalman's quarterly report to the Board
of Dlrectors would be dlstrlbuted to all member companles.
Mr. Morley expressed concern about proposals developlng 1n the MCA
Dccupatlonal Safety and Health Commlttee for the identification of chronlc
hazards on sample labels appearlng 1n MCA safety data sheets. Since safety
data sheet labels could be consldered 1n some quarters as an 1ndustry
standard, he felt that there was a serlous rlsk that even mlnor defects
could lead to costly but unnecessary testlng for every product marketed by
a company. He wanted to be sure that proposed chronlc hazard labellng
guldellnes recelved approprlate revlew by all of those member companles
pvlth representatlves servlng on the commlttees and task groups Hlth responi
Slbllltles related to labellng. He was assured by Mr. Roland that the report
of the Dccupatlonal Safety and Health Commlttee, whlchhas the responslblllty
1n thls area. will be glven the wldest posslble conslderatlon, 1nclud1ng revlew
by other relevant commltteeS, and that all the 1nput necessary for a good
2053
work product will be consldered by that commlttee and by the staff.
Vlted comments from anyone havlng a concern 1n thls matter.
Mr. Henske expressed the Vlew that 1n two years, 15 we contlnue on
our present course, MCA'S budget will be about double the current flscal
year's budget. MCA has become more actlve, whlch Costa money. If there
are any reservatlons or questlons about where the Assoclatlon 15 headed,
they should be communlcated between now and spring at whlch time declslons
concernlng next year's budget will be made. We are headed for a materlal
1ncrease 1n the costs of runnlng MCA. Comments, advlce and guldance of the
member companles are welcomed.
Mr. Donley announced that Copies of the Flnance Commlttee report
and mlnutes Will be dlstrlbuted to all Board members.
Bruce M. Barackman
Secretary
5
Edward Donley
Chalman of the Board
CMA 037509
Exhibit A
upon 017 THE TREASURER
November 2D, 1979
Dollar amounts rounded from tabular detalls
mcom & EXPENSE
June 1, 1979 7 October 31. 1979
Income
Membershlp Fees
Other
5 Months (4217
402
Expense
Operatlons
Projects
Percent of
Budget
127
ASSETS
(As of October 31. 19787
Cash
Investments
Mlscellaneous
41
e, 539
a
CMA 037509
Exhibit B
Proposed Amendments
to
MCA Bylaws
Attached are MCA Bylaws amendments submltted by
General Counsel to effect changes resultlng from spllttlng
the functlons of the SecretaryiTreasurer.
MCA
CMA 037510
pnoposm AMENDMENTS TO THE BYLAWS
(Language to be deleted struck through;
new language underscored)
Artlcle III *Sectlon 4.
MEMBERSHIP
Electlon of Appllcants
(Fourth sentencey
Followlng electlon m membershlp, notlce thereof
shall be mallet! to the appllcant and to all other members of the
Assoclatlon by the SecretaipyiTreasurer Secretary and upon pay*
ment of the entrance fee and membershlp fee the appllcant shall
become a member of the Assoclatlon.
Artlcle III *Sectlon 5.
MEMBERSHIP
Wlthdrawal
Any member may, upon payment of any unpald
obllgatlons to the Assoclatlon, wlthdraw from membershlp at any
tune by glvlng at least thlrty days' advance wrltten notlce thereof
to the Presldent or the SeeFefcaipyiTreasuFeFr Secretary.
Artlcle IIIiSectlon 7,
MEMBERSHIP
Temlnatlon (Second sentenCE7
1: shall be the duty of each such member to give
prompt notlce 1n writing to the Presldent or Seerefcapy...'Treasurer
Secretary of any change 1n ownershlp or actlvltles affectlng the
quallflcatlons for membershlp of such member.
Artlcle 1v *Sectlon 3.
FEES
Arrears
Any member falling to pay his entrance or annual
membershlp fee Within thlrty days from the time 1: becomes due,
shall be notlfled by the Seeresrapywpeasussc Treasurer and 15
payment thereof 15 not made Hlthln the succeedlng thlrty days,
such member shall be reported to the Board of Dlrectors as 1n
arrears, and. 15 so ordered by the Board, shall be dropped from
membershlp and thereupon shall forfeit all rlghts ant" prlvlleges
of membershlp.
Artlcle v *Sectlon 9.
2
BOARD 017 ummmns
Mlnutes
The Board of Dlrectors and the Executlve Commlttee,
respectlvely, shall keep mlnutes of 1:5 proceedlngs and after each
meetlng shall transmlt m the Seeretaipiy...Treasurer Secretary of the
Assoclatlon. for permanent filing among the records of the A5507
clatlon, a copy of the mlnutes of such meetlng Signed by the Secre*
tary of the meetlng and certlfled as correct by the presldlng offlcer.
Artlcle v1 *Sectlon 1.
OFFICERS
Number and Electlon (Flrst and second sentences)
The Offlcers of the Assoclatlon shall conslst of a
Chalman of the Board. a Vice Chalman of the Board. a Chalri
man of the Executlve CommlttEE, a Presldent, one or more Vice
Treasurer. Except for the Vice Presldents" andithe*SeerefcaipyTireaisﬂzinfT the Secretary and the Treasurer, the Offlcers shall
be elected annually by the Board of Dlrectors at the Annual Meeti
mg of the Board.
Artlcle v1 *Sectlon 5.
OFFICERS
The Presldent
(Flrst sentence only)
There shall be elected as Presldent an executlve who
will devote his full tune to admlnlsterlng the affalrs of the Assoclatlon.
Artlcle v1 *Sectlon a.
OFFICERS
The Vice Presldents
(Flrst sentenCE7
The Presldent, mm the approval of the Board of
Dlrectors, shall appoint one or more Vice Presldents, each of whom
shall have such powers and dutles as shall be prescrlbed by the Pre51*
dent; he may also deslgnate the gesirelaryiTireaewie*...i Secretary and
the Treasurer to be ~ Vice Presldents.
Artlcle v1 *Sectlon 7.
OFFICERS
Thaiseerefcaipy. . . 'Treasurer
The Secretary and the Treasurer
The Seorefcairy...Treasurer Secretary and the Treasurer
shall be appolnted by the Presldent, Hlth the approval of the Board of
Dlrectors. Hie, The Treasurer shall be the chlef admmstrauvep £17
nanclal and accountlng offlcer of the Assoclatlon and shall have charge
CMA 037512
7 3 of all funds of the Assoclatlon and shall cause such funds to be deposlted
m the credlt of the Assoclatlon 1n one or more banks. deslgnated by the
Board of Dlrectors
Such funds may be drawn only over the slgnature
of such person or persons as may be authorlzed by the Board of Dlrectors
The Treasurer shall malntaln a proper record of all dues, fees,
qulred, at the expense of the Assoclatlon, to give a bond for the falth*
m1 dlscharge of his duty 1n such amount and Hlth such condltlons as
the Board of Dlrectors may requlre.
The SeeretaipyiTreasurer Secretary shall have the
custody of the books and papers and the corporate seal of the A550*
elation; and shall keep a correct roster of all members Hlth thelr
last known addresses, andifrhallimalnfchmiaip.”PopsiFi”.r«7c«wdie£all
duesr *feesn *anddziontirlbutlon757 reeslvecf.The SeeretaipyiTFeasure Secretary shall give
notlce of and attend all meetlngs of the Assoclatlon and of the
Board of Dlrectors, and shall keep mlnutes of such meetlngs.
He shall notlfy tne Offlcers and Dlrectors and members of the
Assoclatlon of thelr electlon, and commlttee members of thelr
appolntment.
I
I
In case of the absence or dlsablllty of the Seeresrrnyvreasweq Secretary or the Treasurer, the Presldent may appolnt
an actlng SeeFetairiyiTreasurer? Secretary or Treasurer.
Artlcle v1 *Sectlon 9.
OFFICERS
Compensatlon of Offlcers
lsecond sentencey
The Presldent, the Vice Presldents, tbs? SeoretagyTireaisﬂziriri, the Secretary, the Treasurer, any offlcers and agents
elected or appolnted under Sectlon a of thls Artlcle, and 51 other
employees of the Assoclatlon shall recelve such compensatlo as
may be detemlned by the Board of Dlrectors.
Artlcle v11 77 MEETINGS
Sectlon 1.
Annual Meetlng
The Annual Meetlng of members of the Assoclatlon
for the electlon of Dlrectors and other purposes, shall .e held duri
mg the month of June each year, at such time and plac-, Either
Within or wlthout the State of New York. as may be flxd by the
Board of Dlrectors. At least fourteen days' wrltten ntlce of the
Annual Meetlng shall be glven by the See Feterpyw-awrer Sec re tary to each member of the Assoclatlon
CMA 037513
Exhibit C
CHAIRMAN'S upon
August, September, October 1979
Introductlon
The close of the 95th congress 1n October brough a mass of
leglslatlon whlch we are 5:111 studylng for 1:: elevance to
the chemlcal 1ndustry.
The Natlonal Energy Program, of course,
15 the most unportant of these lastimlnute m 5 because of
the budsiranglng and contlnulng 1mpact 1: H11 have.
But
amld the closmg rush were other Signal sucn-sses for MCA
and the 1ndustry.
They were treated extenslvely 1n 3 speclal
Federal Leglslatlve Bulletln and a specla 1nsert m MCA
News, but thelr names bear repeatlng hex“.
Sectlon 311,
"Superfund." TSCA amendments. energy reortlng.
The successes were the result of close ooperatlon among
all staff members.
1: 15 thls klnd of cooperatlon, thls
klnd of actlvlty that will mark the «nu of the new ad?
Vocacy role MCA has begun to play.
The agenda for the next quarter 15 ull.
The Resource coni
servatlon and Recovery Act, Certal aspects of the Toxlc
Substances Control ACt, pretreatmnt regulatlons, preveni
tlon of Significant deterloratlo regulatlons, state 1mplemi
entatlon plans on alr pollutlon, product liability leglslatlon.
And more.
Never. 1: seems, has there has so much to do. and
never has the Assoclatlon bee 1n better condltlon to do 1:.
The reorganlzatlon 15 worklng and the more tlghtly structured
commlttees and staff are rssondlng mm renewed Spirit to the
tasks faclng them.
EDWARD DDNLEY
Chalman of the Board
CMA 037514
TECHNICAL DEPARTMENT
CHEMICAL REGULATIONS ADV sony COMMITTEE.
MCA has made every effo
to make clear to EPA t —: overly strlct rules under sectlon 5
(Premanufacturlng and rocesslng Nomaesy can obstruct 1nnovatlon
15 demands for health safety and marketlng 1nfomatlon go beyond
the statutory need :- establlsh that there 15 no unreasonable rlsk.
Economlc Impacts T35 Group.
A onsiyear, 530mm pilot study on
the economlc 1mpac of the Toxlc Substances Control Act (TSCA7
was begun mm th- Signing of an agreement Hlth Natlonal Economlc
Research Assoclats, Inc.
The prlmary objetlves are m establlsh
a method for me.urlng the economc 1mpact of TSCA on the chemlcal
1ndustry and th v.5. economy, to 1mpact EPA durlng the regulatory
development pr-cess and to 1mpact Congress for regulatory reform.
Over the next ew months. the actual survey questlonnalre Will be
developed and pretested on a small group of member companles.
ursnmsumou COMMITTEE.
MCA 1: askl . approprlate member companles
15 they as pt the rallroad's proposal for a new tank car mlleage
allowance ystem that would 1ncrease compensatlon by almost twothlrds 1n three years. Approval by MCA member companles and
other par 1a: to the proceedlng seems certaln.
MCA will 11s a
statemen notlng that a proposal to change truck drlvers' hours of
servlce 1gb: actually 1ncrease accldents.
The pr-osal of the
Transprtatlon Department's Bureau of Motor Carrler Safety Hill
1ncre.se costs by 25 percent.
In 3 Interstate commerce Commlsslon
procedlng on 1ncreased freight rates and charges, MCA has ﬁlled
a svatement contendlng that the r511 rates on 51x chemlcal product
gr- p5 were already too hlgh.
m plans :9 ﬁlls a slmllar state*
m-nt on future rallroad freight rate 1ncrease proposals that would
515E chemlcal freight rates.
NERGY cousmwnmu COMMITTEE.
The latest energy conservatlon
report (for the perlod June 1977 to June 19797 to the Department
of Energy was presented to the press at a luncheon on November
5, Hlth Robert A. Roland as host.
Also dlstrlbuted m the press
were MCA replles m the General Accountlng Offlces' reportlng
program and the Energy Infomatlon Admlnlstratlon's report to
Congress that could give Congress the 1mpresslon that a more
leglslatlon and regulatlon are needed to accompllsh what already
15 belng accompllshed.
The commlttee 15 worklng on tentatlve
1ndustry posltlons on the Natlonal Energy Act and has dlscussed
coal converslon regulatlons Hlth the DDE'S economc regulatory
CMA 037515
*2adm1n15trator.
on December 7, the commlttee will conduct a semlnar
for DOE on cost determlnatlon 1n the chemlcal 1ndustry.
ENGINEERING ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
The Englneerlng Advlsory Commlttee
1mm Natlonal Electrlcal Code Task Group met 1n August to
recommend MCA proposals for revlslon of the Natlonal Electrlcal
Code.
The EAC'S Task Group on Electrlcal Motors met 1n August
to nmsn a proposed MCA gulde entltled "Recommended Speclfli
catlon Gulde for NEMAiFrame Slze TotallyiEnclosed Famaooied
Horlzontal Inductlon Motors for chemlcal Industry Servlce".
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE.
Durlng August through October,
the Envlronmental Management Commlttee and 1:5 task groups met
more than an tunes on 1:: present major programs:
solld waste
regulatlons. hazardous chemlcal spllls, pretreatment regulatlons,
preventlon of Significant deterloratlon regulatlons, content of
pendlng revlslons to state 1mplementatlon plans, health effects
of alr quallty, water quallty Criteria, toxlc pollutant sampllng
and new economlc perspectlves on envlronmental regulatlons.
The commlttee also developed a program for comblned technlcal and
legal actlons to prepare the bases for respondlng m 25 crltlcal
regulatlons. among 97 identified of unportance, scheduled to be
lssued by the end of 1979.
In structurlng thls program, the EMC
establlshed 15 task groups, compared to 47 under the "old" commlttee
structure. and reduced task group members to about an from more
than 250.
msmmucg COMMITTEE.
on September 29, Robert L. Mltchell of
Celanese Corporatlon presented a statement before the Sub?
commlttee on Mlscellaneous Revenue Measures of the House Ways
and Means Commlttee supportlng the tax deductlblllty of reserves
to pay product liability clalms.
Congress falled to act on
leglslatlon for reserve deductlblllty but 1nstead enacted tax
"carryiback" provlslons whlch Will do llttle to allevlate prof
duct liability clalm problems,
OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH COMMITTEE.
In a statement for
MCA before the Subcommlttee on Labor of the Senate Commlttee on
Human Resources on October 5, Dr. Bruce w. Karrh, medlcal dlrector
of the DuPont Company, called on OSHA to work cooperatlvely Hlth
1ndustry rather than taklng punitive actlon to secure an 1njuryfree workplace.
CMADB‘IEIE
In a postihearlng brlef submltted to OSHA, MCA 531d the agency
exceeded 1:: statutory authorlty 1n 155mm; 1:: much debated
carclnogen regulatlon proposal.
Also revlewed were the need for
rlsk/beneflt analysls and polnts 1n support of the Amerlcan
1ndustrlal Health Councll posltlon.
A Task Group on Chronlc Hazard Labellng 15 draftlng recommended
guldellnes for use 1n preparlng exemplary labels 1n MCA chemlcal
safety data sheets.
At 1:: meetlng September 13, the occupatlonal Safety and Health
Commlttee recommended that MCA challenge the "access to records"
portlon of the flnal (1nter1m7 regulatlon promulgated by OSHA
regardlng exposure and medlcal records.
Guldellnes are bemg
developed by a task group on thls subject for the collectlon of
health and 1ndustrlal hyglene 1nformatlon m be used 1n epmemk
ologlc studles.
The use of such guldellnes by member companles
would help assure compatlblllty of the data when such studles are
undertaken.
Guldellnes also are belng developed on the "evaluatlon, classmk
catlon. rlsk assessment and control of chemlcal teratogens," as
well as "control of embryotoxlc agents 1n the workplace," by 5:111
another task group of the commlttee.
SPECIAL PROJECTS.
Fluorocarbons.
Significant progress has been
made 1n the fluorocarbon research program admlnlstered by MCA
towards 1:: goal of determlnlng the effects of these materlals
upon the atmosphere.
Sufflclent data and knowledge of the
chemlstry 1nvolved from studles completed to date have made 1:
posslble to begln development of a multldlmenslonal computer
model of the role of fluorocarbon: 1n the atmosphere.
At 1:: September 29 meetlng, the Technlcal Panel on Fluorocarbon
Research approved proposals for the contlnued operatlon of the
Atmospherlc Llfetlmes Experlment.
Th1: project 15 deslgned m
detemlne the resldence time of fluorocarbon: 1n the troposphere,
and. 1n comblnatlon Hlth the computer modellng actlvlty, Hill
yleld Valuable 1nfomatlon about the llfetlmes of fluorocarbon:
1n the atmosphere.
Four statlons analyze amblent alr contlnui
ously for specles of 1nterest.
The fluorocarbon research program
provlded $420,000 to establlsh these statlons and m begln
operatlons 1n early 1979.
The program provlded an addltlonal
CMA 037517
$335,000 on September 29 to operate the statlons and to analyze
data for the second year of the experlment.
Other ongolng studles of partlcular unportance are the development of a method of analysls for total chlorlne 1n the stratosphere and catalytlc destructlon of fluorocarbon: 1n the
troposphere by alriborne dust and sand partlcles.
Proposals
for trend analysls of ozone concentratlon, joining the rela*
tlvely new satelllte observatlons Hlth an extenslve set of
groundibased data, are presently under conslderatlon 1n the
panel.
Phosgene.
The Technlcal Panel on Phosgene Safety met on Octoi
her 31 to complete actlon on 14 agenda ltems. Among the more
1mportant of these were 51x investigative proposals.
Five of
these are concerned Hlth retrospectlve mortallty studles, retrospectlve pulmonary studles and a prospectlve onislte study 1n 3
member company whereln the phosgene unlt 15 relatlvely lsolated
from other suspect exposures.
The slxth project under consmerr
tlon 15 a longitem, lowilevel 1nhalatlon study.
:I
:'I
J
I
Tltanlum Dloxlde.
The Tabershaw Dccupatlonal Medlclne Assoclates
P.A., have 1n progress a feaslblllty analysls for an epldemlologi
leal study of tltanlum dloxlde workers.
Dnislte Visits have
recently been completed.
A draft of the flnal report 15 m be
submltted 1n November.
Dependlng on the findings evolvmg from
the feaslblllty study, a fulliscale epldemlologlcal 1nvest1gatlon
mlght be conducted.
Trlchloroethylene.
The Trlchloroethylene Task Group on the Audlt
of the Chronlc Inhalatlon Study met 1n November to prepare a flnal
report on thls research program, whlch was conducted by 1ndustrlal
BIDJFEST Laboratorles, Decatur. 111.
Two 1mportant actlons must
be completed by the audlt task group prior to 1:5 flnal report:
A comprehenslve revlew of and crlthue on the air concentratlon
report or the exposure chamber concentratlon report.
Revlew of
a Crlthue on a draft of the flnal report coverlng a hlstopathi
ologlc study conducted by Experlmental pathology Laboratorles,
Inc.
CMA 037519
Eolchlorohydrln.
The Technlcal panel on Eplchlorohydrln will meet
on November 21 to revlew the findings of the Bniday 1nhalatlon
probe.
Also attendlng Will be Dr. A. R. Sellakumar, who will
dlscuss his research at the New York Unlverslty Medlcal center.
on October 12 a Current Intelllgence Bulletln was lssued advlslng
that eplchlorohydrln should be treated 1n the workplace as 15
1: were a human carclnogen.
Ethylene chhlorlde.
Research on the effects of longiterm 1nhalai
tlon 15 not yet complete, although prellmlnary results do not show
any excess carclnogenlclty.
The Natlonal Cancer Instltute
recently lssued 1:: report on the carclnogenesls bloassay of
ethylene dlchlorlde, statlng that oral admlnlstratlon of the com?
pound produced cancers 1n rats and rules.
Vlnylldene Chlorlde.
on September 21, a jolnt NIDSH/DSHA Current
Int lllgence Bulletln was lssued on the carclnogenlclty of Vinyl
halldes 1nclud1ng Vlnylldene chlorlde.
Cltlng the NIDSH
Crlterla Document and Dr. c. Maltonl's work, the bulletln says
Vlnylldene chlorlde caused anglosarcoma of the llver 1n
annuals.
The bulletln 15 currently belng revlewed by the technlcal
panel, especlally 1n llght of the extenslve research program MCA
has admlnlstered.
Benzene.
1n mldisummer 197e, MCA entered 1nto a contract mm
Tabershaw Dccupatlonal Medlclne Assoclates for a mortallty study
of workers exposed to benzene at nlne operatlng plants of member
companles.
Th1: epldemlologlcal work 1: expected to be completed
about the Sprlng of 1980.
Butylated Hydroxytoluene (BET). Addltlonal funds have been approved
for an expert's revlew of the Franklln 1nst1tute's report on a
llterature survey.
TECHNICAL PUBLICATIONS.
procedures to establlsh and malntaln
other technlcal publlcatlons 1n addltlon to Chemlcal Safety Data
Sheets
1n an upitoidate condltlon were recommended by outslde
counsel 1n September.
Steps to unplement the recommendatlons
are bemg taken.
The MCA £11m, "Safety 1n the Chemlcal Laboratory"
was found to be outiofidate. has been wlthdrawn from dlstrlbutlon
and purchasers of the £11m advlsed.
Drafts of 11 revlsed chemlcal
Safety Data Sheets are bemg prepared; eight drafts are now 1n the
edlt/revlew stage; two drafts are 1n flnal form, awaiting resolui
CMA 037519
tlon of chronlc hazard questlon before publlcatlon, and one drafton phosgene...has been publlshed.
Revlsed drafts of eight Safety Guldes are 1n Varlous states of
completlon. four are 1n flnal draft and one has been publlshed.
cammm.
One cammm workshop was held 1n Cleveland 1n October.
One 1: Scheduled for Atlanta 1n November.
The manager of cmmmc
made the followlng presentatlons: Detrolt 197a Mldicontlnent
Conference & Exhibition on Control of Chemlcal & oll Spllls;
Clnclnnatl Internatlonal Assoclatlon of Fire Chlefsi Maryland Unlverslty of Maryland 7 Fire & Rescue Servlces; Delaware
Chemlcal Industry Councll and New Castle County Fire Chlefs
Assoclatlon.
cammm Statlstlcs:
Total 1nbound Calls
Emergency calls
Total Emergencles
Transportatlon
Nonitransportatlon
3, 097
977
739
555
74
GOVERNMENT RELATIONS DEPARTMENT
LEGISLATIVE COMMUNICATIONS:
Energy.
1n Connectlon mm the
Natlonal Energy Plan leglslatlon proposed by the admlnlstratlon,
MCA worked 1n close concert Hlth Washlngton representatlves of
member companles and members of the Energy Conservatlon Commlttee.
Congresslonal developments were monltored closely to 1nsure that
enacted mm: were compatlble Hlth 1ndustry 1nterests,
partlcular
attentlon was given to energy tax proposals whlch mlght have
produced user taxes or a crude oll equallzatlon tax.
Envlronment.
Superfund.
MCA took the leadlng role 1n an 1n: rlndustry effort to block enactment of thls hlghly objectlonable
piece of leglslatlon. We were jolned by petroleum, waterways,
trucklng, rallroad and other 1nterests.
CMA 037520
Sectlon 311.
MCA was the prlnclpal 1ndustry organlzatlon responslble
for enactment of a Vastly unproved Sectlon 311 of the Clean Water
Act.
The sectlon now clearly dlstlngulshes between dlscharges
assoclated Hlth routlne operatlons and spllls from noniroutlne
causes.
The Assoclatlon. worklng closely mm EPA and several
other 1ndustry groups and Congresslonal staff, was able to help
to steer the 1ndustry mu through both senate and House 1n the
flnal hours of the 95th Congress.
The Government Relatlons Department has begun evaluatlon of
1 glslatlve prospects for the comlng year 1n the envlronmental
area. mm partlcular attentlon to the llkellhood of amendments
to RCRA.
OSHA.
MCA testlfled before the Senate Labor Subcommlttee durlng
1:5 overslght hearlngs on OSHA 1n early October.
Our staff
partlclpated 1n polishing of Assoclatlon testlmony, gathered
useful background materlal on Subcommlttee members, helped to
srlef and prepare the wltness team and handled all loglstlcal
rommunlcatlons before and after the hearlngs.
1
MCA monltored and reported 1n detall on the OSHA overslght heari
lngs conducted by the House Manpower Subcommlttee 1n mldiseptember.
AIHC.
In support of AIHC programs, the staff partlclpated 1n 3
number of meetlngs mm Washlngton representatlves and Hlth
communlcatlons speclallsts handllng the AIHC medla campalgn.
A
number of advlsory communlcatlons have been sent to all member
companles keeplng them abreast of developments.
Speclal attentlon
15 belng glven to constructlve contacts mm members of Congress
to explaln the AIHC alternatlves package.
Taxatlon.
In Connectlon mm MCA testlmony 1n late August on the
tax reductlon b111, the staff worked closely Hlth the Assoclatlon
Hltness 1n preparlng mm for his appearance before the Senate
Flnance Commlttee.
We coordlnated development and submlsslon of
an Assoclatlon statement on the "sunset" revlew of taxatlon lssues
whlch was ﬁlled September 1. A letter to the House Ways and Means
Commlttee was prepared 1n early September whlch expresses our Vlews
on the tax treatment of employee frlnge beneflts.
on the 315: of
October there was a general meetlng of the MCA Tax Pollcy Commlttee.
CMA 037521
Toxlc Substances Control Act.
The staff lead 1ndustry efforts to
communlcate mm Congress regardlng the impending amendments to
TSCA. a Verslon of whlch passed the Senate contalnlng an objectlonable 1ndemn1£1catlon provlslon.
The measure riled 1n the House of
Representatlves.
1
Transportatlon.
MCA contlnues m monltor closely the 1ncreased
Congresslonal 1nterest and attentlon to emergency response capai
mums: 1n connectlon mm transportatlon accldents.
We worked
closely mm Congresslonal staff and partlclpated 1n the MCA
Emergency Response Workshop conducted 1n Cleveland 1n October.
We monltored Congresslonal attentlon m the Norfolk and Western
r511 strlke. whlch was causlng concern for many chemlcal shlppers.
1
Trade/Tarlffs.
The staff answered numerous requests from member
companles and medla regardlng the multllateral trade negotlatlons.
A staff member represented MCA as a consultant to the v. s.
Government's delegatlon to the annual meetlng of the Economlc
Commlsslon of Europe, Chemlcal 1ndustry commlttee.
In Connectlon
mm the Visit by leaders from the European Councll of Chemlcal
Industry Federatlons, we prepared an economc analysls and fore*
cast paper for thelr advance revlew.
In addltlon, the staff
chalred the staffilevel brleflng conducted for the delegatlon
durlng thelr V151: October 10.
The staff partlclpated 1n numerous
meetlngs Hlth government offlclals on trade matters 1nclud1ng
representatlves of GAD, the Offlce of the Speclal Representatlve
for Trade Negotlatlons, the Department of Commerce and Congresslonal
staff.
Product Llablllty.
The MCA staff helped prepare a letter to a
Senate Flnance Subcommlttee settlng forth the Assoclatlon's Vlews
on leglslatlon to provlde tax deductlons for amounts held 1n
reserve for product liability losses.
The letter was submltted
1n early September.
Later that month we were also 1nvolved 1n
preparlng testlmony 1n the same area whlch was presented to the
House Ways and Means Subcommlttee,
J
CMA 037522
PROJECTS AND SERVICES:
Chemlcal Forum.
The Chemlcal Forum lunch?
eon serles 15 planned and managed by the staff of the Government
Relatlons Department.
The September 12 luncheon featured an ad?
dress by Representatlve James G. Martln (Rina), a member of the
House ways and Means Commlttee and a welliknown spokesman for
reasonableness on questlons of sclence and government regulatlon.
on October 10 the forum was addressed by Under Secretary of
Commerce Sldney Harman.
Erleflng Breakfasts.
The Erleflng Breakfast serles 15 condutk
ted by the MCA staff as a means of provldlng regular updates
for Washlngton representatlves of member companles.
Status
reports and current actlon 1n both leglslatlve and regulatory
areas are presented.
Speclal guests frequently make brlef
presentatlons and answer questlons.
on August 31 the speclal
guest was Charles BruCE, a counsel on the staff of the Senate
Flnance CommlttEE, who dlscussed pendlng tax leglslatlon.
on
October 26, William F. Hlldenbrand, secretary to the mlnorlty
of the Senate and prlnclpal Senate floor alde to Senate Mlnorlty Leader Howard Baker, gave his forecast on the Senate races
1n the November 7 electlons.
I
Monltorlng and Publlcatlons,
1n addltlon m routlne leglslatlve
monltorlng, the staff publlshed editions of the Federal Leglslai
tlve Bulletln on August 29 and October 19 that gave upitoidate
reports on leglslatlon of 1nterest m the chemlcal 1ndustry.
The October lssue furnlshed a Hrapiup of the 95th Congress.
Leglslatlve status charts were also prepared on several oci
caslons for use at Erleflng Breakfasts and for dlstrlbutlon to
the MCA Board of Dlrectors and MCA Executlve Commlttee.
INTERNAL MISCELLANEOUS:
Durlng thls quarter the Department added
two new staff members.
a. Chrlstopher Nolde jolned us as leglsi
latlve representatlve for safety and health.
He Will manage the
leglslatlve communlcatlons programs whlch relate to TSCA and OSHA
and will serve as leglslatlve edltor.
M155 Dorls Baqulne jolns
the staff as secretary to Mr. Nolde.
1
1
CMA 037523
GENERAL COUNSEL
The flrst few months of actlvltles under the MCA reorganlzai
tlon have brought a Significant 1ncrease 1n the scope of MCA'S
legal advlsory program.
The successful lltlgatlon 1n the
Western Dlstrlct of Louisiana agalnst EPA'S regulatlons under
Sectlon 311 of the Clean Water Act was the flrst major case
brought by MCA.
More recently MCA jolned the Amerlcan Petroi
leum Instltute and the Amerlcan Iron and Steel Instltute 1n
successfully challenglng osaA's benzene regulatlons 1n the
Flfth Clrcult Court of Appeals.
MCA also has asked for a
revlew of EPA'S Pretreatment Regulatlons adopted under Sec*
tlon 307 of the Clean Water Act and a revlew of EPA'S Pre*
Ventlon of Significant Deterloratlon regulatlons under the
Clean Alr Act.
MCA'S legal advocacy presently covers a broad range of ad?
mlnlstratlve and regulatory actlvlty 1nclud1ng DSHA'S proposed
generlc cancer regulatlon, 05%.”: proposed medlcal records
retentlon regulatlons. Consumer Product Safety Commlsslon's
cancer regulatlon, EPA'S TSCA regulatlons, EPA'S Clean Water
Act permit regulatlons, and EPA'S Resource and Recovery Act
regulatlons.
Th1: broad scope of advocacy 15 not jls t legal
argument.
Rather. 1: 1ntegrates legal and technlcal advocacy,
mm MCA counsel worklng closely mm MCA commlttees and tech?
nlcal staff.
Not all of the advocacy 15 litigation.
In the
case of Sectlon 311 regulatlons, successful lltlgatlon paved
the way for a more permanent settlement negotlated Hlth EPA
and 1mplemented by leglslatlve amendment.
The Sectlon 311
negotlatlon has, 1n turn. provlded the opportunlty for what
may be Very meanlngful, hlghilevel negotlatlons concernlng
RCRA and liabilities related to solld waste dlsposal.
pmsmc RELATIONS AND EDUCATION
ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION.
In addltlon m contlnulng to pro*
vme news on envlronmental and occupatlonal health matters.
CMA 037524
ChemEcology addressed three major lssues of 1mportance to the
1ndustry durlng thls quarter.
Transportatlon safety was the theme 1n the August issue.
1n
September, ChemEcology was careful to provlde facts about the
Low canal 1nc1dent whlch most of the medla chose to 1gnore.
Th1: helped to put that lssue much more 1n 1:: proper perspec*
tlve.
Several artlcles 1n the October lssue emphaslzed the
growlng reallzatlon that rlsk/beneflt 15 more than a concept...
1: 15 a fact of 115a.
For example, the Natlonal Research Couni
all says that the beneflts of nltrogen fertlllzers outwelgh
thelr posslble rlsk to the ozone layer, and a federal court
struck down a workplace standard for benzene on the basls that
1:: cost exceeded potentlal beneflts to employees.
Durlng thls perlod 4mm addltlonal thought and opinion leaders
voluntarlly asked to be added to our mailing 115:, brlnglng
total ChemEcology clrculatlon to 24,000.
Three Toxlc Substances Management Memos were lssued on Sec*
tlons 5 and 91:17 of the Toxlc Substances control Ash, and on
the Assoclatlon's economc 1mpact study of the Act.
At the
same time, the clrculatlon of the memos has been expanded
and opened to anyone 1n the 1ndustry mm a "need to know."
Envlronmental 1nformatlon was made avaliable durlng these
three months through MCA exhlblts at meetlngs of the Amerlcan
Chemlcal Soclety, the Amerlcan publlc Health Assoclatlon
and the Natlonal Sclence Teachers Assoclatlon.
Educatlon Actlvltles.
An itltlal prlntlng of 50,000 Copies
of "Mlnorlty Englneers...A Gulde to Career Selectlon" has been
exhausted.
The booklet 15 MCA'S contrlbutlon to the 1ndustry's
effort to achleve a parlty 1n the hlrlng of mlnorlty englneers
Within 10 years.
A completely new edition of "Chemlstry Proji
acts and Sclence Falrs" was also publlshed.
Dlstrlbutlon of
"Experlments 1n the chemlstry of Foods" was stopped because
1: 1ncluded suspect chemlcals.
A publlc advlsory has been
lssued. MCA exhlblted for the flrst tune at a meetlng of the
CMA 037525
Amerlcan Publlc Health Assoclatlon. a group that 1ncludes
envlronmentallsts, publlc health dlrectors, government ad?
mlnlstrators and educators.
October was also MCA'S flrst
tune to exhibit at an Amerlcan chemlcal Soclety meetlng.
At the Natlonal Sclence Teachers Assoclatlon conventlon
1n October. MCA strengthened 1:5 liaison and contlnued
1:5 role of leadershlp Within NSTA by servlng on the conveni
tlon plannlng commlttee.
Through MCA...5 efforts, the
chlef toxlcologlst of The Dow Chemlcal Company probably
will address the NSTA natlonal meetlng next Aprll.
The
manager of educatlon partlclpated 1n several AC5 coni
ferences and 1n 3 conference on hlgh school chemlcal edui
catlon.
Preparatlons for the next teacher awards have
begun.
Consumer Informatlon.
MCA has arranged for the flrst tune
to partlclpate 1n the Natlonal Assoclatlon of Farm Broad?
casters annual meetlng 1n November.
Before thls meetlng
began, MCA had recelved more than an requests from 1nd1V7
1duals for two to four 1ntervlews each mm 1ndustry repre*
sentatlves for a total of 1007250 tapes.
Since thls 15 a
flrstitlme effort, only audlo tapes Will be made. About
3,000 tapes of 1ntervlews made at the Amerlcan Women 1n Raf
dm and Televlslon annual meetlng 1n June have been requested
for use by extenslon home economlsts around the country.
Response has been positive, Hlth most of the tapes belng used
at least three t1mes...on the radio, mm dlscusslon groups
and as source materlal for newspaper columns.
MCA has arranged
Hlth the Natlonal Assoclatlon of Extenslon Home Economlsts to
sponsor a contest for the best multimedia packet whlch conveys
positive aspects of chemlstry 1n extenslon home economlcs pro*
grams.
The wlnner of the cammipr (Creatlve Home Economlcs
MultkMedla packem award will recelve 5500.
Another contest,
sponsored orlglnally by the General Federatlon of Women's
Clubs and MCA, Will be contlnued alone by (3ch over the next
two years.
"It's your Country, Make 1: Work" was deslgned by
MCA :9 explaln the v.5. economc system.
In addltlon m exhlblts at the Natlonal Extenslon Homemakers
cm 037525
Councll and the Natlonal Assoclatlon of Extenslon Home Economi
15:5, the consumer 1nformatlon Sectlon also partlclpated 1n
3 Natlonal safety Councll program.
Another partlclpant used
the occaslon to ask the consumer 1nfomatlon manager to pre*
para a program on food addltlves for the annual meetlng of
the Amerlcan Assoclatlon of Drthodontlsts.
Two slxﬂ'nlnute 1ntervlews of Edward Donley were conducted by
the sectlon for the radlo show "Good lelng." Arrangements
also were made to 1ntervlew Tom K. Smith Jr. and John Henske
for the program.
Magazlnes and trade papers contlnue to call
for reprlnt rlghts to "Your Breakfast Chemlcals"...one of the
most recent uses showlng a color photo of a typlcal break?
fast and 1:: natural chemlcal lngredlents 1n chemlstry magai
zlne of the Amerlcan Chemlcal Soclety.
Press Relatlons.
The sectlon worked closely mm Parade
magazlne on 1:: October cover story on Chemtrec.
parade
has a clrculatlon of 55 mlllan, plus multlpllers.
Arrangements have been made to reprlnt the story.
The
sectlon also has cooperated Hlth Chemtrec 1n writing an
artlcle on the emergency servlce for the monthly pusher
tlon of the 1nternatlonal Assoclatlon of Fire chlefs and
on another artlcle for FlrehouSe. a monthly magazlne of
100,000 clrculatlon that goes to the flreflghter.
Chem?
tree and the sectlon are also preparlng a presentatlon talk
for the Chemtrec manager.
The manager of press relatlons
made the arrangements for an mac televlslon 1ntervlew mm
the presldent of MCA on the Love Canal 1nc1dent and the pos*
slble ramlflcatlons of RCRA.
Staff also arranged the press
luncheon on the 1ndustry's energy conservatlon report that
featured MCA'S presldent and members of the Energy Consent
tlon Commlttee.
Industry representatlves have been contacted to Hrlte artlcles
for the speclal journal of Commerce edition that hlghllghts
the chemlcal 1ndustry on the day of the Semlannual Meetlng.
Coverage of the meetlng by the trade and general press has been
arranged,
press releases. of courSE, were lssued on all major
statements and actlvltles of the Assoclatlon.
cm 037527
T
Speclal publlcatlons.
MCA News 1n October publlshed a speclal
1nsert on the good work of the Government Relatlons and Legal
Departments 1n the last sesslon of Congress,
1: also publlshed
Representatlve Jim Martln's Chemlcal Forum address as an 1nsert.
Dr. Martln's speech was made 1nto a brochure, whlch Will get
the wldest posslble dlstrlbutlon, 1nclud1ng 400 copies that
were gratefully recelved by Dr. Martln hlmself.
A speclal
effort was made to call attentlon to the unpresslve work of
the chemlcal 1ndustry 1n energy conservatlon by publlshlng
the results of the latest enery report to DOE 1n 3 l2’page
booklet.
In addltlon m the flgures, a statement by Mr.
Roland and a narratlve sectlon on "how the 1ndustry dld 1:"
filled out the publlcatlon.
The booklet Will get Hide d15*
trlbutlon. but 1:: prlmary audlence Will be the 3111 and
the bureaucrats 1n DOE.
The sectlon wrote and edlted some of
the materlals that went 1nto the work book for the Department
of Commerce brleflng by the 1ndustry on November 14.
The
sectlon also prepared thls report.
:I
Chemlcal Industry Counclls and Similar groups have expressed
great 1nterest 1n havlng Mr. Roland speak to them.
The new
MCA presldent spoke to the Loulslana and Texas chemlcal 35*
soclatlons 1n thls past quarter and he 1: scheduled to speak
to the Los Angeles and Northern Callfornla groups 1n November
and m the Mldwest cm 1n the sprlng.
I
am 037529
Exhlblt u
MANUFACTURING CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
REPORT BY THE DIRECTOR OF sovmmmm RELATIONS
WILLIAM M. sTov‘ER
NOVEMBER 2D, 1979
ADMINISTRATION LAUNCHES WAGEiPRICE GUIDELINES woman
Presldent Carter. on October 24, unvelled ms anuqnflamon
plan 1n 3 personal appeal on televlslon.
1: contalned three elements“.
a Voluntary wagejorlce program
a promlse to reduce the Federal budget deflclt
a proposed tax rebate to workers recelvlng less
of a pay 1ncrease than the seven percent gulde*
llnes .
1
1
on October 25, Alfred E. Kahnv Chalman of the awn Aeronautlcs
ard, was named Chalrman of the Councll on Wage and Price Stablllty.
He 15 a Eliyeariold economlst Hlth broad experlence 1n and out of
government.
315 many years as professor at Cornell were 1nterspersed
Hlth m1ddle*level government posltlons 1n the Elsenhower, Kennedy
and Johnson Admlnlstratlons,
He also was a staff economlst at the
:mnkiank, Brooklngs Instltute.
There seems to be a broad acceptance
of Kahn mm llttle or no crltlclsm of Presldent Carter's cholae.
t
The cow: was 1mmedlately expanded from 40 staffers m 150
by transfer from other agencles.
1:5 offlces are located a block
from the Whlte House 1n the New Executlve Offlce Bulldlng.
The emphasls on prices to date 15 on an 1nd1v1dual company
basls.
thtle or nothlng 15 belng done as yet on an 1ndustry basls.
Four hundred companles mm sales over $500 million will be closely
monltored. Major companles 1n groups of ten were called 1n as early
as November 2 m dlscuss compllance.
Each company was allowed two
representatlves, one a high level executlve, the other, a technlcal
staffer.
Hundreds of companles are scheduled for slmllar meetlngs
1n 3 month's tune.
Reactlon of v. s. busmess m the Presldent's program 15 Very
mlxed.
Responses from chemlcal 1ndustry range from strong crltlclsm
to wary acceptance Hlth unlfomly strong emphasls on government
budget control.
The problems for companles 1n complylng Hlth detalls (not called
gulatlons because the program 1: Voluntary) are already becomlng
evldent.
Rarely 15 a government agency thrust 1nto a regulatory
role so qulckly.
Although the last wagejorlce control experlence 15
1nstruct1ve. 1: does not provlde answers to many new qu stlons.
cm 037529
There 15 some indication, just for one example, of deallng dlfferi
ently mm Varlous 1ndustr1es.
The chemlcal 1ndustry has had exaggerated price movement 1n
the perlod 197371975, followed by a more normal price movement
1n the last three years.
Chemlcals and
Allled Products
Wholesale Price
Index 11957~1nm
Increase from
Prevlous Year
(percent7
1973
1974
1975
197a
1977
197e~
110.0
145.9
131.3
137.0
192.5
199.0
33.5
23.5
1: would appear that the cholce of the perlod of 197571977 for
average price 1ncrease detemlnatlon under the Presldent's program
leaves llttle leeway for price unprovement on an 1ndustryiw1de basls.
The only part of the Presldent's program requlrlng'leglslatlon
15 the tax rebate plan for those gettlng compensatlon 1ncreases
less than the seven percent guldellne.
There are already Signals
from Capltol 3111 that thls concept will be controverslal when the
Presldent presents 1: m the new Congress.
Industryiwlde responses will be dealt Hlth by MCA as the pro*
gram develops.
The Assoclatlon staff will monltor developments 1n
the wagejorlce program, and an approprlate task group will task
group will make recommendatlons on wagejorlce lssues and lead any
necessary communlcatlons efforts.
CDSTLE HEADS mmsnmm's REGULATORY covucm
Presldent Carter has named Douglas M. Castle, Admlnlstrator of
the Envlronmental Protectlon Agency, to chalr the newly created antli
1nflatlon "Regulatory Councll".
The Councll Will be comprlsed of
representatlves of the Departments of Agrlculture, Commerce, Energy,
Health. Educatlon and Welfare, aousmg and Urban Development, Interlor,
Just1CE, Labor, Treasury and Transportatlon.
The role of the Councll
15 m coordlnate Federal rulemaklng to ensure more efflclent and
costieffectlve regulatlons.
A staff of 10720 people will be drawn
from the Federal agencles 1nvolved.
The Councll's flrst asslgnment
15 the development of a unified calendar of major Federal regulatlons,
to be publlshed 1n the Federal Reglster by February 1, 1979.
The Regulatory Councll will complement actlvltles already re*
qulred by Executlve Order 12044 on regulatory refom.
These would
1nclude the work of the Regulatory Analysls Revlew Group (mum,
whlch 15 chalred by the Councll of Economlc Advlsors Hlth staff
support from the Councll on Wage and Price Stablllty.
However.
the RARG has authorlty to revlew only 20 major regulatlons per year
Hlth a maxlmum of four regulatlons per Federal agency.
cm 037530
3
The initial proposals for the Regulatory Councll would probably
have 1ncreased the 1nfluence of the Councll of Economlc Advlsors,
and the Councll on Wage and Price Stablllty to put a cap on costs
of regulatlons
However. strong pressure from Congress, envlroni
mental groups and labor caused the Presldent to abandon the economlc
advlsors 7 domlnated Regulatory Councll, and adopt the current
structure whlch 15 slmllar m the one proposed by agency chlefs as an
alternatlve
Under the present organlzatlonal concept, the Offlce of
Management and Budget 10MB) and the Councll on Wage and Price Stablllty
(cowpsy may partlclpate, but only as observers.
Mr, Costle's appolntment 1: expected to 1ncrease EPA'S Vlsablllty
and clout and his own stature Hlthln the Admlnlstratlon.
However. the
job, whlch runs through January 1, 1980, 15 llkely to dlvert Slgmsk
cant amounts of tune away from his dutles as EPA Admlnlstrator.
ATTENTION TD CHEMICAL INCIDENTS commxms
:I
A Wide range of governmental and legal actlons confront our
1ndustry because chemlcals may be dangerous when mlsused, overused
or mlshandled and because 1nc1dents resultlng from such abuses
greatly concern the publlc.
Medla attentlon and publlc concern, 1n fact, are 1ntense and
"Pgrowlng and show no Signs of abatlng
Th1: 1: 1n spite of the fact
that the chemlcal 1ndustry as a whole has had an excellent record
1n handllng hazardous chemlcals on a dally basls wlthout harm to
the publlc or the envlronment
I
I
Governmental and Congresslonal attentlon 15 just as 1nten5e, and
offlclal bodles have proposed many solutlons to problems arising from
chemlcal 1nc1dents.
They have done so, however, 1n 3 placemeal and
uncoordlnated manner
In thelr Varlous forms, these solutlons call for the transfer
of resources to provlde the followlng:
7 penaltles for spllls;
7 restltutlon for 1nd1v1duals personally or economlcally harmed;
7 remedles or neutrallzatlon of the effects of chemlcal
mlshaps; and
7 restoratlon of damaged sltes and condltlons.
The adjournment of the 95th Congress on October 15 has not
halted attempts by the Leglslatlve and Executlve Branches m devlse
remedles for 1nc1dents related to overuSE, msuse or improper d15*
posal of chemlcals.
7 The House Commerce Subcommlttee on Overslght and Investlgatlons
held one day of hearlngs on October an.
The subjects were Contamlnai
tlon problems occurlng 1n Hard man County, Tenneswsee, where Velslcol
Chemlcal Corporatlon dlsposed of chemlcal wastes at a companyiowned
242*acre 51tE, and the contlnulng problem of Love Canal 1n Nlagara,
New York
A second hearlng 15 tentatlvely scheduled for mldinecember,
cm 037931
4
to focus on exlstlng laws and thelr appllcablllty to hazardous waste
dlsposal, mm partlcular emphasls on inactive or abandoned hazardous
waste dlsposal sltes
7 Just prior to adjournment, Representatlve John J. LaFalce
(DiNlagraiNyy 1ntroduced two mus whlch address these dlfflcult
publlc pollcy questlons.
The flrst would provlde rellef to all per*
sons 1njured as a result of toxlc pollutants 1n the envlronment.
The second would establlsh a doubleﬁiuty fund for malntenance of new
and exlstlng dump sltes and malntenance and reclamatlon of abandoned
sltes.
Both mus, as well as other llablllty and compensatlon pro*
posals consldered but not approved by the 95th Congress, will llkely
be relntroduced 1n the 96th Congress,
7 The EPA has 1nd1cated that 1: 15 glvlng top prlorlty to an
effort to detemlne an approprlate system for provldlng remedlal
actlon for inactive or abandoned waste dlsposal sltes whlch pose a
threat to the envlronment.
1: appears that the fund concept, dE*
Veloped 1n the 95th Congress 7 flrst for 011 and then chemlcal
spllls 7 Hill reappear 1n new leglslatlve initiatives where restltui
tlon 15 1nvolved.
7 All indications suggest that the new Congress will return
to formatlon of publlc pollcy regardlng liability for chemlcal
1nc1dents early 1n 1979; staff preparatlon 15 already underway.
Both the House and the Senate have pledged early actlon on RCRA and
1: 15 antlclpated that amendments will be enacted 1n 1979.
1: 15
posslble that llablllty and compensatlon provlslons Will be 1ncluded
1n amendments to RCRA and that they may elther 1nclude, or set
*precedents for, other types of pollutlon problems resultlng from
spllls or unlntentlonal dlscharge,
7 The Senate Envlronment and Publlc Works Commlttee staff 15
currently examlnlng new Superfund programs for 1ntroductlon 1n
1979.
7 The House Commerce Commlttee and EPA are focuslng on the
problems assoclated mm dlsposal of hazardous wastes.
IMPORTANT TAX LEGISLATION ENACTED
Three pieces of tax leglslatlon were enacted 1n the closmg
days of the 95th Congress whlch are of 1nterest m the chemlcal
1ndustry.
Revenue Act of 1979: Most unportant of these 15 the Revenue
Act of 1975 passed by Congress on October 15 and Signed by the
Presldent on November 5.
Followlng are major provlslons of thls
measure affectlng cozporatlons,
7 Corporate 1ncome tax rate 7 The maxlmum corporate 1ncome
tax rate will be reduced from 4979 m 46%, effectlve 1979.
cm 037532
5
7 Investment Tax Credlt 7 The 107. 1nvestment tax credlt and
the $100,000 used property llmltatlon have been made permanent.
The amount of tax llablllty that may be offset by the credlt Hill
1ncrease from 507. to 907., phased 1n 10 percentage polnts per year
startlng 1n 1979
The credlt has been extended to expendltures
for the rehabllltatlon of structures whlch have been 1n use for at
least 20 years, effectlve October 31, 1979,
The full 1nvestment credlt Will be avaliable for pollutlon
control facilities, even where Siyear amortlzatlon has been elected,
effectlve December 31, 1979
However. 15 the faclllty 15 flnanced
Hlth tax*exempt 1ndustrlal development bonds, the credlt Will be
allowed for onlyhalf the 1nvestment
The llberallzatlon of the 1nvestment credlt and the re*
ductlon 1n corporate 1ncome tax rate will reduce busmess sector
taxes by an estlmated 55,4 bllllon 1n 1979
7 Capltal Galns 7 Effectlve October 31, 1979, for 1nd1v1duals,
507. (1nstead of 507.7 of net capltal galns may be deducted from gross
1ncome. The alternatlve capltal galns rate of 257. on the flrst
550,000 of galns 15 repealed for taxable years beglnnlng after
December 31, 1979
For cozporatlons, the alternatlve capltal galns tax will be
reduced from 307. m 297. for sales occurrlng after December 31, 1979.
7 Product Llablllty Losses 7 Net operatlng losses attrlbutable
to product liability losses may be carrled back 10 years.
Companles
Will be pemltted to set Esme reasonable amounts of afteritax
1ncome as a reserve agalnst future llablllty losses wlthout :nggep
mg a penalty tax
7 Busmess Entertalnment 7 Deductlons Will be denled after
December 31, 1979 for certaln entertalnment facilitiES, such as
yachts and huntlng lodges
Deductlons Hill contlnue for country
club dues. for tlckets to sportlng events, and for busmess meal
expenses
Forelgn Earned Income Act of 1979: For taxable years beglnnlng
after December 31, 1977, thls Act ellmlnated the flat excluslon
for Amerlcans worklng abroad and replaces 1: mm a comblnatlon of
costiofillvlng, excess houslng costs, educatlon, and travel dE*
ductlons
Taxpayers llvlng 1n certaln hardshlp locatlons would be allowed
a speclal $5,000 deductlon 1n order to fully compensate them and to
encourage u s cltlzens to accept employment 1n those areas.
Frlnge Beneflts (PL 9574277 : Th1: Act, passed 1n September
and Signed by the Presldent 1n early October, prohlblts ms from
155mm; flnal regulatlons relatlng m the taxatlon of mployee
frlnge beneflts before 1980
1: also prohlblts the Treasury Department or ms from 155mm;
rullngs or flnal regulatlons concernlng the deductlblllty of certaln
commutlng or transportatlon expenses 1ncurred before 1980.
cm 037533
OIL pnmms commxms
Since 1:: enactment 1n 1973, the Emergency Petroleum Allocatlon
Act (EPAAV, as amended by the Energy Pollcy and Conservatlon Act of
1975 (EPCAV: has provlded the baslc authorlty for Executlve Branch
regulatlon of the pricing and allocatlon of crude 011, resldual
fuel 011. and each reflned petroleum product.
7 Current Authorlty:
Under these laws the Presldent 15 requlred
to regulate the price of 011 untll May 31, 1979.
El: authorlty to
alter the present 011 pricing regulatory scheme prior to that date 15
subject to Congresslonal revlew, and thus a posslble Veto by elther
House of Congress.
The Presldent does have the authorlty, however,
to allow the average domestlc price of 011 m rlse ten percent
annually under a prlcenadjustment mechanlsm.
Since the average
domestlc 011 price has been kept well below the leglslated Ceiling
priCE, there 15 a Significant amount of accumulated percentage in,
crease allowable between now and May, should the Presldent declde to
employ thls authorlty
7 Presldentlal Authorlty from May 31, 1979, through September
30, 1931: on May 31, 1979, the Congresslonal mandate to control the
price of 011 explres
After that date the Presldent has dlscretlonary
authorlty to promulgate and amend pricing regulatlons or lssue other
dlrectlves, through September, 1991
However. 1: 15 a matter of d15*
puts whether thls "dlscretlonary authorlty" remalns subject :9 Con*
gresslonal revlew and Veto limitations.
7 Petroleum Industry Posltlon:
The petroleum 1ndustry supports
decontrolled domestlc all prices and would llke to see the Presldent's
"dlscretlonary authorlty" after May 31, 1979, 1ntezpreted so as m
provlde flexlblllty m abollsh controls, and wlthout the Congresslonal
revlew and llmltatlons.
7 Chemlcal Industry Posltlon: MCA has testlfled on the pricing
lssue on numerous occaslons,
We support any actlon whlch will permit
petroleum prices to rlse to world levels through decontrol or phasedremoval of price controls.
Th1: would permlt prlmary energy prices
to reflect replacement costs and provlde the maxlmum lhcentlve to
develop new resources and expand the supply base.
7 v. 5. Price Relatlve to Major Forelgn Competltors: The cost
of crude 011 and natural gas to u s domestlc chemlcal producers 15
below that of forelgn competltors.
The average cost for a barrel of
crude oll charged to v. s reflnerles 1ncludes 51x dlfferent 1nputs:
January 1979 v. s. Reflnery Crude Costs
Crude:
old 011
New 011
Strlpper well
Alaskan
Naval Petroleum Reserve
Proportlon
19
7
4
1
1
Cost per Barrel
12.17
14.39
13.19
12.52
cm 037534
7
January 1979 v. s. Reflnery Crude Costs”
1cont1nued7
Crude:
Proportlon
Total Domestlc
Forelgn Imports
Composlte
Cost per Barrel
54
45
14.59
100
12.05
Mueparment of Energy Estlmate
The composlte price of 512.05 gives the Unlted States a
competitive advantage (for bulk commodlty products only) over
countrles buylng crude 011 at the world price of over $14 per
barrel.
However. crude 011 15 paid for all over the world mm
The countrles havlng currencles whlch have
appreclated agalnst the dollar are gettlng, 1n effect, reduced
prices on the 011.
Two strong chemlcal competltlve countrles,
Japan and West Germany, are an example.
Japan paid 15.3 percent
less for 1:5 011 1n Aprll, 1979, than for the year 1977. West
Kermany paid 11.7 percent less.
1979 ELECTION RESULTS PRODUCE CHANGES
*The Republlcan Party has staged a modest comeback both 1n the
natlonal leglslature and Statehouse: throughout the country, although
Democrats contlnue to malntaln polltlcal domlnance control.
For the
96th Congress, Republlcans achleved a net gain of 12 seats 1n the
v. 5. House of Representatlves and 3 seats 1n the Senate.
(The
Senate gain 1: dependent on conflmatlon of John Warner's Victory
1n Virginia.
In the HouSE, Republlcans could gain another seat or
two. dependlng on the outcome of 5:111 undeclded contests.) The
new membershlp of the House will be comprlsed of 27a Democrats and
159 Republlcans.
The new Senate will 1nclude 59 Democrats and 41
Republlcans.
At the state level. Republlcans won 15 governorshlps 1nclud1ng
such unportant states as Texas, Pennsylvanla, Mlnnesota, Wlsconsln
and Nebraska prevlously held by Democrats.
Th1: represents a net
gain of 6, brlnglng the governorshlps now held by Republlcans up
from 12 m a total of 18,
The G.D.P. also galned majorltles or
tles 1n 15 state leglslatures, and achleved a net gain of approxy
mately 300 state leglslatlve seats.
of greater significance than mere numerlcal changes are trends
,mward the rlght, Republlcan Party resurgence at the grass roots
pvel, and changes 1n the leadershlp of Congresslonal Commlttees
11gb unpact on the chemlcal 1ndustry.
cm 037535
L
a
7 House and Senate Leadershlp on the Democratlc slde of the House, Speaker D'Nelll (Mm.
Majorlty Leader erght (TX) and Caucus Chalman Foley (sz7 were
returned to Congress November 7, and are expected to be raielected
to thelr House leadershlp posltlons December 4
John Brademas 11m
1: expected to be reappolnted Party wmp
Regardlng House Republlcans, there 15 speculatlon affectlng
Mlnorlty Leader John Rhodes (A27 and/or John Anderson 11m. Chalman
of the Republlcan Conference (the number 3 G n P, posltlon),
Rhodes
has been crltlclzed by conservatlve House Republlcans for a lack of
aggresslve leadershlp and ms wllllngness to compromlse mm the
opposltlon
1: appears that only Republlcan wmp Robert Mlchel 11m
could be a real threat to RhodeS, but the two are close frlends. and
Mlchel 15 thought unllkely to mount a challenge
Mlchel 15 next 1n
llne to succeed retlred Elford Cederberg (MD as ranklng mlnorlty
member on the House Approprlatlons Commlttee, but Republlcans have
tradltlonally foreclosed a member from holdlng leadershlp and rankl .
commlttee posts slmultaneously
However. next behlnd Mlchel 1n
senlorlty on the Approprlatlons Commlttee 15 Sllvlo Conte (Mm. re
garded as 3 "mg spender" and too llberal by many Republlcans,
Coni
sequently, there 15 talk that Rhodes could placate the conservatl es
and flnesse a challenge :9 ms Mlnorlty leadershlp posltlon by ha king
3 Hauler allowlng mchel m be both wmp and top Republlcan on
Approprlatlons. one of the most powerful Commlttees 1n the House
An early test of the suggested new conservatlsm of the House
may ensue 15 Guy Vander Jag: (Mm challenges llberal John Antler -n (my
*for leadershlp of the caucus, known as the Republlcan Conferene.
The
Republlcan Pollcy Commlttee chalr 15 also open due to the retl-ment
of Del Clawson (CA7
13111 Frenzel (Mm 1: expected to wln thls post
as head of the Republlcan Research Commlttee, whlch could set p a
contest between moderate Lawrence Coughlln 1pm and conservat Ve
Trent Lott msv
In the Senate, Democrats are expected to elect Warren Magnus- 1sz7
to succeed retlred James Eastland msy as Presldent Protem
They Will
undoubtedly raielect Robert Byrd (WV) as Majorlty Leader an Alan
Cranston (CA7 as Majorlty wmp
Senate Republlcans are expected to
raielect Howard Baker (TN) as Mlnorlty Leader and Ted SteV-ns (AK)
as Mlnorlty Whip
7 Commlttee Changes u
5. House of Representatlves
House Commlttees have undergone dramatlc changes toward nw
and younger leadershlp 1n recent years, and when the 95: Congress
convenes 1n January, only two Chalrmen Will have held th-lr posts
for more than 51x years
(Educatlon and Labor's Carl Perklns mam
and Commerce's Harley staggers (Drwvy
Because of retlrements. defeats:
convlctlons, 1nd1ctments and reprlmands, at ;least 51v. and posslbly
seven of the 22 standlng Commlttees Will have new Chal an, and the
Subcommlttees Will be playlng a game of'lnuslcal Chalr en"
cm 037535
Rlchard Bolllng (Dims) will become Chalman of the 1 ortant
Rules CommlttEE,
He 15 even more llberal, and 1: expected to work
more closely Hlth the leadershlp than the retiring Calrman, James
Delaney (Drum
Claude Pepper mrFLy becomes the ranklng Democrat
on the Commlttee
There Will be some changes on the powerful
Approprlatlons CommlttEE, as Jamle Whltten (Dims) ucceeds 431’s”
Veteran George Manon (DiTxy as Chalman, and Elfor Cederberg uHm
steps down as ranklng Republlcan
Also on the Approprlatlons Com?
mlttEE, Dan Flood mam could be forced to give p ms Chalmani
shlp of the LaboriﬂEW Subcommlttee (whlch has ju sdlctlon over
. OSHA appropnauonsy, because of his recent 1n1ctment
The Commlttee on Interstate and Forelgn Commerce whlch has
jurlsdlctlon over envlronmental matters, toxlc nstances, solld
waste dlsposal, and Varlous Federal health and ancer programs, 1:
1n 3 state of dlsarray
Three of 1:: most 1mportant Subcommlttee
Chalmanshlps Will need to be filled: Health (aul Rogers, DiFL,
retiredy, Overslght and Investlgatlons (John 24.55, DiCA, remredy,
and Transportatlon (Fred Rooney, DiPA, defeatdy
I
I
j
t
j
1
Leadlng contenders for the Health Subcommlt ee Chalr are Davld
Satterfleld (DrVA) and Rlchardson Prayer u: my
Satterfleld 15
percelved by a number of Commlttee Members as too conservatlve to
head thls key Subcommlttee mm jurlsdlct -n over clean alr, drug
recom leglslatlon, saccharln, and other mportant health and cancerrelated lssues.
Prayer, 3 relatlve moderate and former Feeral
judge, respected by Commlttee colleagues .nd the House leadershlp,
would be the next cholce
But he has famlly connectlons and 1nvest ants 1n the phamaceutlcal 1ndustry whlch could cause an apparent
confllct 1n the Subcommlttee...s work 0 drug regulatlon and FDA leglsi
latlon
Bob Eckhardt (DiTxy 15 favored 1n the c-ntest for the Chalr of
the publlcltyiprone Overslght and Inve 1gatlons Subcomlttee.
If
he succeeds, Eckhardt Will have to glv up his Chalrmanshlp of the
Consumer Protectlon SubcommlttEE, um. Will open up thls Sub?
commlttee's allilmportant jurlsdlctlo over the Toxlc Substances
Control Act
The sltuatlon 15 also uncertaln for e Transportatlon
SubcommlttEE, whlch has jurlsdlctlon over RCRA, hazardous materlals
derallments, and other envlronmental lssues
Somewhere down the
llnE, such leadlng llberal Democrat as James Scheuer (Drum,
are golng to get thelr chance to c .11“ one of these Subcommlttees.
The Ways and Means Commlttee, resp-nslble for Federal tax laws,
will lose a Democratlc Members. 1n ludlng ranklng Democrat James
Burke mm. Omar Burleson (TXM J-- Waggoner (my, and 0:15 Plke
of speclal significance 1: the relrement of Joe Waggoner,
longitlme frlend of busmess, leaer of Southern conservatlves 1n
the HouSE, and Chalrman of the M scellaneous Revenue Measures Subcommlttee
Leadlng contenders for his Subco mlttee Chalrmanshlp are
All 12 Republlcans
on the Commlttee are returnlng
They should pick up an addltlon.l
seat on the Commlttee due to th addltlonal Republlcans elected to
the HouSE, whlch changes the r.1o of Democrats*toikepubllcans
on Commlttees.
cm 037537
1
T
10
on the Interlor CommlttEE, M-rrls Udall (DiAZ) returns as
Chalman. Ranklng Republlcan Joe Skubltz (K57 retlred, and Don
Clausen (cm 1: expected to .ecome top Republlcan.
Phll Ruppe's
“Hm retlrement ellmlnate one proponent of the FEB 1ndemn1f1ca*
tlon leglslatlon, but other will undoubtedly come forward to
espouse thls cause.
on the Publlc Works Commlt ee, Harold Johnson 1cm returns as
Chalman. and Wllllam Bar a 1037 as Ranklng Republlcan.
A change could occur 1n t e Chalrmanshlp of the Government
Dperatlons Subcommlttee o Manpower.
Th1: 15 the Subcommlttee
whlch held extenslve hea lngs on chemlcal hazards 1n the workplace
and has played a key rol 1n pressurlng OSHA 1nto adoptlng such
recent regulatlons as t e generlc carclnogen standard, chemlcal
substances identificatln, and access to employees medlcal records.
Cardlss Colllns (DrIL) s the present Chalrwoman, but 15 Charles
mggs (D4417 15 forced o rellntjulsh ms Afrlcan Affalrs Subcommlttee
"Chalrmanshlp because us his recent convlctlon for payroll 1rregulari
1t1e5. Ms. Colllns may take over Dlggs' Chalr.
Th1: would open
her Manpower Subcommltee Chalrmanshlp m elther Glenn Engllsh union
or 311m: Levltas m7 A7.
on the Commerce Comm ttEE, Howard Cannon miuvy returns as
Chalman. but James 'earson's (RiKS7 retlrement and Robert Grlffen's
“Hm defeat opens he Ranklng Republlcan post for Ted Stevens mam.
However, 15 raieleced Mlnorlty wmp, Stevens would be precluded
from holdlng thls Cnmmlttee post, whlch would then go to Bob Packwood
Chalman Jennlngs '-ndolph (Drwvy and Ranklng Republlcan Robert
Stafford mam reurn to the unportant Envlronment and Publlc Works
Commlttee.
Henry Jackson m7 "7 returns as Chalrman of the Energy Commlttee,
but the retlremen of James Abourezk mrsm and defeats of Floyd
Haskell micm an Wendell Anderson mimm open three Democratlc
seats on the Com thee.
Retlrement of cl fford Hansen miwn opens
up the Ranklng Rpubllcan posltlon for Mark Hatfleld (Rioky.
on the Flnance ommlttee. Chalrman Russell Long (DiLAy returns,
but defeats of 'loyd Haskell ”Hm, and Willlam Hathaway (Drum
Vacate two Subc-mmlttee Chalrmanshlps, whlch will probably be filled
by the two Dem-crats appolnted m thelr seats. Ranklng Mlnorlty Member
Carl Curtls (R my retlrement opens the way for Robert Dole (RiKsy
to 5111 that slot, but to do so Dole must give up his Ranklng
Mlnorlty p051 lon on the Agrlculture Commlttee
There may 51:“ be some changes on the Human Resources Commlttee
whlch has jursdlctlon over such major leglslatlon as labor law
refom, work-rs compensatlon, ERISA and OSHA.
If Ranklng M norlty
Member Jason Javlts nHm takes the Ranklng Republlcan post on
the Forelgn 'elatlons Commlttee, as expected, he will lose his
cm 037539
c
11
ranklng poltlon and some staff on the Human Resources Commlttee.
Chalman rrlson Wllllams mimy may give up his Labor Subcomi
mlttee Ch.1rmansh1p for another Subcommlttee of a dlfferent
Commlttee and then merge ms Labor Subcommlttee 1nto the full
Human Reuurces Commlttee.
7 Tlmetale for Selectlon of Commlttee Members and Chalrmen
Durlng t e flrst week 1n December, House Members will elect
thelr l-adershlp:
Speaker Majorlty Leader and Majorlty wmp
by Demo rats, and Mlnorlty Leader and Mlnorlty wmp by Republk
cans:
Recommndatlons for Commlttee asslgnments on both sides
will b consldered durlng the interim before the new Congress
conve es January 15, 1979.
Soon hereafter. the Democratlc
Cauc _ will meet to approve Commlttee Members, Commlttee Chalri
men, and Approprlatlons Subcommlttee Chalmen.
Subsauently, the
Com ttees will meet to select thelr Subcommlttee Chalmen.
The
Bone Republlcan Conference will undertake a 51mllar process
to Mlnorlty posltlons on Commlttees and Subcommlttees.
In the Senate, the Democratlc Caucus will elect thelr
Prsldent Protem. Majorlty Leader and wmp on or about January
Sun thereafter. the Democratlc Steerlng Commlttee
\ 1 meet to make recommendatlons on Commlttee asslgnments and
1.1mensh1ps, whlch must be approved by the entlre Democratlc
aucus.
he Senate Republlcan Conference will undertake a
1mllar process.
t
cm 037539
AGENDA
MEETING OF THE cm 13mm: 017 ummmns
Yellowstone Room. Hyatt Regency on Capltol mil
Washlngton, u. c.
TAB
Call to Order Chalman Drefflce
Approval of Mlnutes of Meetlng, September 29729, 1991
Treasurer's Report G. c. Herman
Assoclatlon Actlvltles:
1
Developments Affectlng Domestlc Internatlonal
Sales Corporatlons Glenn w. whlte. The Dow
Chemlcal Company
2
Survey of cm Companles: Effect of Reagan Tax
3
Report of Speclal Programs Advlsory Commlttee
4
Sunset of Publlc Rlsk Analysls Speclal Commlttee
and Establlshment of Regulatory Impact Speclal
Commlttee Konrad M. Welsi Jackson B. Brownlng,
vmon Carblde Cozporatlon
5
Status Report on Member Servlces v. E. Peterson
5
lD:DSrlD:lS
Report of Technlcal Dlrector G. v. Cox
7
musings
Report of General Counsel B. B. Frost
a
10:25710:35
Report of Dlrector of Government Relatlons
9
10:35710:45
New Buslness
10:45
Adjournment
Next Meetlng of the Board of Dlrectors:
The Arlzona BlltmorE,Phoen1x, Arlzona
Monday and Tuesday, January 1112, 1932,
cm 037737
2.171
MINUTES of the twoihundred elghtyiflfth meetlng of the Board of Dlrectors of
the Chemlcal Manufacturers*Assoclatlon. Inc., held at the Hyatt Regency on
Dlrectors
Paul F. oresnce, Chalman
Louls Fernandez. Vice Chalman
Rlchard c. Ashley
Willlam E. Jackson
Dexter F. Baker
Raymond 3. Marks
Robert P. Barnett
leght c. Mlnton
”Charles E. Brooke:
Barry W. Buchanan
Willlam c. Roher
Carlyle G. Caldwell
Robert A. Roland
Lester E. Coleman
John P. Sachs
Drell T. Colllns
Robert 5. Dudley
William J. slmeral
Rlchard E. Engebrecht
Drln R. Smith
Robert w. Garwlg
Allan J. Tomllnson
Arthur L. Goeschell
Hugh B. Vanderbllt
James E. Henderson
Edward A. Von Doersten
Paul F. Hoffman
Konrad M. Wels
Edwln c. Holmer
Willlam G. West
Rlchard J. Hughes
Louls G. Zachary
Ray R. Iranl
Secretary:
General Counsel:
Treasurer:
Bruce M. Barackman
Edmund B. Frost
Gary c. Herman
By Invltatlon:
Jackson B. Brownlng, vmon Carblde Cozporatlon
u. Chrlstopher Cathcart, cm
Geraldlne v. Cox, CMA
Myron T. Foveaux. CMA
Robert B. 3111, CMA
Willlam c. Krumrel. The Procter & Gamble Company
Vlctor E. Peterson. CMA
Ernest s. Robson. soCMA, Monsanto Company
James N. Sltes. CMA
Willlam M. Stover, cm
Glenn w. Whats, The Dow Chemlcal Company
The meetlng was called to order by Chalman Drefflce.
APPROVAL 017 SEPTEMBER 29729, 1991 MINUTES
Mlnutes of the September 29729, 1991 meetlng, as dlstrlbuted, were approved.
TREASURER'S upon
Mr. Herman's report 15 attached as Exhibit A. Addltlonally he advlsed that
the latest flnanclal statements concernlng the four months endlng September 30, 1931,
cm 037739
2172
1nd1cate overall no Significant Varlances from budget. Member dues, however,
will be somewhat lower than orlglnally budgeted but thls Will be more than
recovered by 1nvestment earnlngs whlch are hlgher than orlglnally antlclpated.
He encouraged attendance at the November 10 and November 17 meetlngs of
the Board Revlew Commlttees whlch Hill provlde Significant 1nput to th budget
process. The budget will be 1n1tlally revlewed by the Flnance Commlttee on
March a, 1972.
REPORT 017 ACTIONS TAKEN AT EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
Mr. Slmeral descrlbed the recent Visit to Brussels where he and Mr. Drefflce
contlnued the dlalogue on problems of common 1nterest mm the pollcy group of
CEFIC. He then advlsed that Mr. Henderson had reported on a meetlng of the Com?
munlcatlons Pollcy Revlew Commlttee. A full dlscusslon of the communlcatlons
program will take place at the January Board meetlng.
ASSOCIATION ACTIVITIES
Developments Affectlng Domestlc Internatlonal Sales Corporatlon mrscy
Followlng a status report on ursc developments mxmm: B7. Mr. Whlte
presented the report of the Tax Pollcy Commlttee on ursc (Exhlblt (:7.
Mr. Roland. referrlng m the dlscusslon at the last Board meetlng coni
cernlng the establlshment of the Investment Pollcy Advlsory Commlttee
to the Offlce of Trade Representatlve, announced that Mr. Dexter Baker
has been nomlnated as the chemlcal 1ndustry representatlve to that com?
mlttee. The CMA Internatlonal Trade Commlttee Hill establlsh a task
group to provlde support 1n thls area.
Survey of am Member Companles;
Effect of Reagan Tax Cuts oni 1m:
Mr. stover presented the attached report. Exhlblt u.
Sunset of Publlc Rlsk Analysls Speclal Commlttee and Establlshment of
Regulatory Impact Speclal Commlttee
Dr. Wels presented the proposal, prevlously approved by the Executlve
CommlttEE, whlch would termlnate the Publlc Rlsk Analysls Speclal Com?
mlttee and establlsh the Regulatory Impact Speclal Commlttee Hlth the
charter and membershlp as set forth 1n Exmm: R. Followlng remarks
by Mr. Brownlng:
0N MOTION. duly made and seconded,
1: was
VOTED:
To approve Exhlblt E.
Status Report on Member Servlces
Mr. Peterson updated his report, Exhibit F. In addltlonal he descrlbed
the flrst annual meetlng of state groups scheduled for November 4 1n
Washlngton, o.c.
cm 037739
2173
Sapoc" of Speclal Programs Advlsory Ccmalmyaa 'spao
Dr. Cox 1nv1ted attentlon m the 3m: report, Exhlblt G. notlng that
the Executlve Commlttee had approved 1:: ”authorlzatlon for another
year.
REPORT 017 TECHNICAL DIRECTOR
3r. Cox's report 15 attached as Exhlblt a.
Agaln she urged all nonpartlclpants to serlously conslder partlclpatlng m the hardicopy phase of the
cammmc communlcatlons program.
permm MATERIAL REDACTED
REPORT DE DIRECTOR of GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
In expandlng on his report, Exhlblt J, Mr. Stover descrlbed the polltlcal
Situation 1n the Congress 1n order m contrlbute m a better understandlng of
the current attache on EPA and m Admlnlstrator. Support, as approprlate, of
spa and Anne Corsuch. as well as other Agency heads, was urged.
He also dlscussed the prospects for congresslonal actlon on the Clean Alr
Act and advlsed that am contlnue" m partlclpate 1n the busmess Coalltlon whlch
15 worklng for amendments thls year. Durlng dlscusslon the Vlew was expressed
chat educatlon of the publlc and the Congress muse contlnue 1n regard to amendlng
the Clean Alr Act so that the advocates aren't percelved as trylng to gut tha Act.
NEW BUSINESS
Mr. Drefflce announced the reslgnatlon, effectlve October a, 1931, of
William <3. Kay, Jr., Dlrector of tha Assoclatlon. To 5111 the Vacancy thus
creacsd on the Board. Mr. Drefflee on behalf of the Nomlnatlng Cosnlttee,
nomlnated Mr. Wllbert J. Hagers, Group Vice Presldent, Sun Company, Inc. and
Presldent of Sun Reflnlng and Marketlng Company, as Dlrector of the Assoclatlon.
0N MOTION
1: was
duly mad: an" seconded
voTED> To elected Wllbert J. Mangers
a Dlrector of the Assoclatlon for the
remalnder of tha flscal year, effactlve
November 3, 1931.
Bruce M. Barackmen
Vice Presldentisecretary
Paul E. ofefflc
Chalrman of the Board
cm 037740
EXHIBIT A
TREASURERS upon
Five Months Endlng October 31, 1991
Th1: report will be prepared and dlstrlbuted followlng
the end of the month.
For your reference, the followlng 15 provlded:
The approved budget and fundlng for the flscal year
beglnnlng June 1, 1991 and endlng May 31, 1932.
e
The approved budget for the separately funded
Blomedlcal and Envlronmental Speclal Program area.
A summary recap of the approved budget and fundlng
for all Communlcatlon and Publlc Relatlons
expendltures through am.
am 037741
CHEMICAL mmmcmumns ASSOCIATION
APPROVED swam AND muomc mu THE
Flscal Year Beglnnlng June 1, 1991 and endlng May 31, 1992
REVENUE:
Membershlp Dues
Investment Revenue
Meetlngs (Net of Expenses)
GENERAL OPERATIONS REVENUE
1991792
Annual Budget
5 9,500,000
900,000
232,000
510,532,000
ChemCAP Assessment 9 40a of Dues
3,900,000
Utilization of ChemCAP Assessment
collected durlng prior year
TOTAL REVENUE
150,000
514,492,000
woman AND MANAGEMENT EXPENSES:
General Counsel
Government Relatlons
Internatlonal Trade 4 Economlcs
State Actlvltles Program
Conmunlcatlons and Publlc Relatlons
Technlcal Admlnlstratlon
Health. Safety 4 Chemlcal Regulatlons
Envlronmental Actlvltles
Dlstrlbutlon. Energy, Enqlneerlng
Chemtrec
Dutslde Legal Fees
Dutslde Technlcal Consultlng
Executlve Department
Accountlng, Purchaslng 4 Bulldlng Servlces
Printing, Distrlbutlon 4 Computer Servlces
GENERAL OPERATIONS EXPENSES
ChemCAP Expenses
TOTAL EXPENSES
AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL
Note:
750.500
722.400
222.300
204.400
1,131,400
191.200
734.300
552.500
417.500
521.500
1,500,000
1,155,900
1,222,100
459,200
415,700
510,532,000
3,950,000
514,492,000
147
The above budget and fundlng does not Include the actlvltles
and staff of the separately funded Blamedlcal and Envlronmental
Speclal Programs area.
CHEMICAL mmmcmumns ASSOCIATION
APPRDyED BUDGET AND muomc mu
BIOMEDICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIAL pnosmms
Flscal Year Beglnnlng June 1, 1991 and endlng May 31, 1992
REVENUE:
1991792
Annual Budget
Overhead relmbursement
9 5500 per day
Investment Revenue 13 9%
324,000
Less: Dlrect Credlt of
Investment Revenue to
the Fluorocarbon Program
Publlcatlon Sales
1,000
TOTAL REVENUE
Budget
Amendment“
1991792
Annual Budget
As Amended
5
39,200
590,500
324,000
1.000
s
904,300
39,200
943,500
Salarles 4 Related Expenses 5
Employee Beneflts
Travel 4 Staff Training
Dues, Subscrlptlons 4 Pubs.
Meetlngs 4 Workshops
Dutslde Printing, Artwork
7 4 Graphlcs
Dlrect Postage, Frelght 4
Dellvery
Dlrect Supplies 4 General
Offlce Expense
Taxes 4 Insurance
Speclal Insurance
Rent 4 Occupancy
Common Cost Expenses
Admlnlstratlve Support:
Technlcal Admlnlstratlon
Offlce of General Counsel
Accountlng
Prlntlng 4 Dlstrlbutlon
349,200
as, 500
9,400
1,200
sun
5
29,400
5,500
sun
200
100
379,500
71,100
9,200
1,400
gun
TOTAL EXPENSES
904,300
EXPENSES:
AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL
sun
sun
11, nun
sun
11,500
25,900
27,300
55, nun
44,300
55,700
sun
2,200
2a, 300
29,500
55, nun
44,300
55,700
49,700
74,100
13,700
11, nun
49,700
74,100
13,700
11, nun
12
5
39,200
2
s
943.500
14
The addltlon of a program admlnlstrator and secretary to the Speclal
Programs staff was approved at the September Executlve Commlttee
meetlng.
cm 037743
CHEMICAL mmmcmumns ASSOCIATION
SUMMARY RECAP 0F COMMUNICATIONS AND
PUBLIC RELATIONS EXPENDITURES
Flscal Year Beglnnlng June 1, 1991 and endlng May 31, 1992
The followlng detall summarlzes total fundlng and expendltures through cm In the Com
munlcatlons and Publlc Relatlons area as an 1ntegrated program. The portlons funded
by members dues and those funded by the speclal ChemCAP assessment are presented both
separately and as a comblned total.
woman FUNDING:
Dues & Other General Revenue Requlred
to support program
ChemCAP Assessment 0 40a of Dues
Utilization of ChemCAP assessment
collected durlng prior year
1991792
Approved
Comnunlcatlons
woman EXPENSES:
woman EXPENSES EXCLUDING ALL ADVERTISING
Advertlslng development, space costs, etc.
TOTAL woman EXPENSES
1991792
Comblned
Communlcatlons
Budget
3,900,000
3,900,000
150,000
150,000
5
TOTAL FUNDING
Salarles 4 Related Expense
Employee Beneflts
Travel 4 Staff Training
Dues, Subscrlptlons & Publlcatlons
Meetlngs & Workshops
Research & Opinion Polls
Medla 4 Publlc Relatlons
Dutslde Printing, Artwork 4 Graphlcs
Audlo Vlsual Materlal 4 Dlstrlbutlon
Dutslde Publlcatlon Dlstrlbutlon
News Materlals/Work shops
Communlty Commlttees
Speakers Program
Sclentlflc/Academlc Programlng
Dlrect Postage, Frelght, Dellvery
Dlrect Supplies 4 General Offlce
Taxes 4 Insurance
Rent 4 Occupancy
Common Cost Expenses
~ Admlnlstratlve Allocatlon of
Salarles. Beneflts and Overhead
Charges of Conraunlcatlons Personnel
1991792
Approved
ChemCAP
Budget
555,900
99,700
70,700
9,200
9,900
70112.nnn
rDrDl2D.DDD
190,000
555,900
99,700
70,700
9,200
9,900
120,000
292,000
275,100
150,000
435,100
11, nun
4a, nun
97,100
123,500
150,000
40, nun
ea, nun
sn, nun
2n, nun
sn, nun
an, nun
751:
150,000
40, nun
ea, nun
sn, nun
2n, nun
sn, nun
202,500
11, nun
4a, nun
97,100
123,500
412,100
5 1,131,400
3 1,329,100
2,531,900
2,531,900
5 5,091,400
cm 037744
EXHIBIT B
DEVELOPMENTS AFFECTING
uomsnc INTERNATIONAL SALES CORPORATIONS mrscy
am has learned that the Treasury Department 15 conslderlng
a modlflcatlon of the Domestlc Internatlonal Sales Cozporatlon
mrscy provlslons of the Internal Revenue Code. Th1: conslderatlon
has arlsen because of allegatlons by European Common Market members
that the arse provlslon Vlolates the GATT Subsldles Code.
Under present law, the arse provlslons permit a corporatlon
to defer current v.5. 1ncome taxatlon on up to onsihalf of 1::
export proflts so long as those proflts are devoted to export
related actlvltles.
In 1979, the latest year for whlch offlclal
Treasury Department flgures are avallable, the chemlcal and
allled products 1ndustr1es deferred 5299.4 mllllon 1n taxes from
ursc sales or 1.5 percent of total gross recelpts. At issue,
however. 15 not only the value of the current tax lhcentlve for
ursc related actlvltles. but the tax treatment of prevlously
deferred ursc 1ncome.
Since the arse provlslons were enacted 1n
1971, total tax deferrals could be substantlal for many CMA
member companles.
At the September meetlng, CMA'S Board of Dlrectors expressed
1:: concern over developments related to ms: and dlrected the Tax
Pollcy Commlttee m revlew thls problem and to develop an approprlate
CMA response and strategy. on October 14, 1991, the Forelgn Tax
Task Group met on ms: and a representatlve will present a status
report to the Board at 1:: November meetlng.
In the interim, cm
Presldent Robert A. Roland has wrltten dlrectly to Treasury
Secretary Donald T. Regan to stress the prune unportance of ms:
to the chemlcal 1ndustry and CMA'S deslre m be consulted 1n the
development of thls leglslatlon.
Actlon Requlred:
None.
For 1nformatlon only.
CMA
CMA 037745
1
EXHIBIT c
upon an ursc
upon 0F THE TAX POLICY
COMMITTEE on ursc
CMA enthuslastlcally applauds the declslon of the Reagan Admlnlstratlon
m contlnue 1:: support of the provlslons of the Internal Revenue Code whlch
pertaln to Domestlc Internatlonal Sales Cozporatlons mrscy.
For some tune the Treasury Department and the Offlce of the Speclal
Trade Representatlve had consldered proposals to modlfy the arse provlslons.
Th1: revlew stemmed from allegatlons of our major European tradlng partners
that those provlslons Violate the GATT Subsldles Code.
1: 15 understood that the GATT Councll may make a flnal declslon 1n the
near future on whether ursc Vlolates GATT. 1: Is posslble that such a declslon
could be delayed for an 19724 month perlod. cm 15 most encouraged that the
Admlnlstratlon Hill Vlgorously defend the arse provlslons. However, 15 1: Is
ultlmately declded that ursc violates GATT, the Unlted States will be faced
mm repeallng or replaclng 015:, or retalnlng ms: and allowlng GATT members
to impose countervalllng dutles and to take trade reprlsals. Th1: would prob?
ably result 1n GATT becomlng a weakened Internatlonal organlzatlon.
The DIS: lssue 15 Very luvportant to the economlcs of the v.5. chemlcal
1ndustry. Export sales comprlse a Significant portlon of total 1ndustry sales,
and export proflts are likewise Significant. The ellmlnatlon of the arse
provlslons would substantlally affect the ablllty of the v.5. chemlcal 1ndustry
to compete In Internatlonal markets. Moreover, 15 ms: were ellmlnated and
accumulated earnlngs were made subject to tax, chemlcal companles would see
a substantlal plunge 1n avaliable capltal and earnlngs reported to shareholders
1n that year because of payment of the tax or an 1ncrease In tax reserves.
1: 15 posslble that ursc could be replaced by a dlfferent export lhcentlve,
such as a forelgn Internatlonal sales company. Regardless of what Is proposed,
ongolng 1ndustry effort will be requlred to ensure that any ursc replacement
1: at least as beneflclal as ursc. The key questlons that must be consldered
1n thls regard are the treatment of exlstlng tax deferrals and Intercompany
pricing rules.
In Vlew of these conslderatlons. the Tax Pollcy Commlttee recommends that
CMA take the followlng posltlons Hlth respect to ursc:
CMA supports ursc as the minimum response of the v.5.
Government to an effectlve export pollcy. CMA and
CMA 037745
member companles should urge Secretary Regan. Ambassador
Brock, and other representatlves of the Government not to
concede that 015: mlght Vlolate GATT. European countrles
should be made to understand that the Unlted States belleves
that ursc Is not as strong an export lhcentlve as the effect
of the tax systems of those countrles and that the Unlted
States Is commltted to and Hill provlde an Incentlve no
less strong than ursc.
CMA should. however. threat 1:: Tax Pollcy Commlttee to
study, develop, and pursue alternatlve export Incentlves
so that am could respond Imnedlately mm an acceptable
alternatlve to any actlon of GATT, the Treasury, or the
Congress that mlght lead to a llkely repeal of ursc.
In 1:: actlvltles. the Tax Pollcy Committee belleves 1:
should pursue three fundamental prlnclples. Flrst, Any
alternatlve export Incentlve shall be at least as beneflclal
:9 Exports on an overall basls as the present ursc provlslons.
Second. Any alternatlve export lhcentlve must contaln
clear and equltable prlnclples for the pricing of exports
along the llnes of sectlon 994 of the arse rules. mum.
There should. be no tax Imposed as part of any changeover
m an alternatlve entlty on present accumulated ursc
earnlngs. More than $10 bllllon 1n current v.5. corporate
Income taxes may have been deferred by Amerlcan Industry
through the operatlon of the arse provlslons. of thls
amount the chemlcal Industry has deferred more than $1
bllllon In taxes that would be Imnedlately charged
agalnst earnlngs reported to shareholders under generally
accepted prlnclples of accountlng 15 the arse provlslons
are repealed.
The Tax Pollcy Comnlttee will report to the Board of
Dlrectors should a change In clrcumstances occur that
necessltates reconslderatlon of the pollcy descrlbed
hereln.
CMA
CMA 037747
I
EXHIBIT u
Survey of cm Companles:
the effect of the Reagan Tax Cuts on
Research 4 Development
The
that CMA
Reagan's
a survey
would be
CMA board of dlrectors, at thelr. September 29, 1991 meetlng, dlrected
attempt to develop concrete means to express support for Presldent
economc programs. To accompllsh thls, staff was dlrected to conduct
to detemlne what effect the Economlc Recovery Tax Act of 1991
llkely to have on company Investment for research and development.
mm the cooperatlon of several member company experts, cm staff has
developed a short questlonnalre whlch seeks to detemlne any changes
antlclpated 1n R 4 n budgets as a result of the Tax Act. The questlonnalre
also seeks to determlne the llkellhood of shlfts 1n R L n actlvltles
from forelgn subsldlarles m v.5. Elms. Confldentlallty of all responses
will be malntalned. Th1: 15 bemg done to determlne 15 company slze has
any effect on the amount of resources alloted to R 4 n actlvltles.
1: 15 antlclpated that the questlonnalres Will be mallet! m cm
Executlve Contacts the last week In October. mm a requested return date
of November 15. The tabulated results are antlclpated by December 1.
All cm members are urged to complete the questlonnalre so that a
strong consensus on thls Issue can be reached.
Actlon Requlred:
None.
For Informatlon only.
CMA
CMA 037749
EXHIBIT E
IMPACT SPECIAL COMMITTEE
Subject
The Publlc Rlsk Analysls Speclal Commlttee
(PRASC7 has Eulfllled the requlrements of
1:: Charter and should sunset. A new Regi
ulatory Impact Speclal Commlttee should be
conned to develop approprlate methodologles
for use 1n regulatory 1mpact analysls byCMA.
Dbjectlve
To fom a Speclal Commlttee whlch can help
CMA support the Admlnlstratlon's regulatory
pollcy more fully, and functlon Within the
guldellnes of CMA'S Pollcy for Regulatory
Impact Analysls of Health, Safety and Envlroni
mental Regulatlons.
Recommendatlons
That the CMA Executlve Commlttee sunset the
Publlc Rlsk Analysls Speclal Commlttee and
approve the attached charter for a new spe*
c131 commlttEE, the Regulatory Impact Speclal
Commlttee Hussy.
The 115: of proposed com?
mlttee members will be sent to the Executlv
Commlttee under separate cover.
Actlon Requlred
Sunset muse and approve the charter for RISC.
r
Tune:
Date:
From:
J
Telephoned
Wants to see you
Returned your call
Please call
W111 call again
URGENT
CMA
CMA 037749
REGULATORY IMPACT SPECIAL COMMITTEE
CHARTER
Under the Regulatory
Safety and Envlronmental
Impact Analysts
Regulatlons
Pollcy for Health,
approved by the Board of
Dlrectors and Hlthln the 11mm: of authorlty speclfled
Executlve
CommlttEE.
develop approprlate
analysls by cm.
promote
agencles.
an
other
Committee
Hlll
deflne
methodologles for use In regulatory
The Speclal
mm organlzatlons
Hill
the Speclal
actlve
Commlttee Hill
In regulatory
exchange
of
malntaln
Impact
Informatlon
assoclatlons,
and
by the
1mpact
liaison
analysls,
With
chemlcal
and
and
regulatory
and
allled
1ndustrles.
Among Its members the Speclal
Commlttee
shall
have
repre*
Th1:
method
analysls
across
sentatlves from other approprlate CMA commlttees.
of commlttee structure would Insure conslstent
the spectrum of cm Interests.
CMA
CMA 037750
REGULATORY IMPACT SPECIAL COMMITTEE
Nomlnees
Mr. Jackson 3. Brownlng mmmmm
Dnlon Carblde' Cozporatlon
2.7m Park Avenue
New York. Ny IDDX‘I
Mr. Willlam K. Newbury
Conoco Inc.
ngh Rldge Park
Stamford. CT 05904
Mr. Anthony DlBattlsta
unmismsy Cozporatlon
Saw M111 Ruler Road
Ardsley, Ny 10502
Mr. Thomas a. Rhodes
Exxon Chemlcal Amerlcas
Houston. TX 77001
Mr. H. Granvllle Halght, Jr.
E. 1. du Pont de Nemours* E: Company
1007 Market Street 7 Room 1354
Wllmlngton, DE 19999
Dr. Willlam R. Rlchard
Monsanto Company
ann N. Llndbergh Boulevard
St. Louls, MD 53155
The Procter & Gamble Company
Mlaml Valley Laboratorles
Clnclnnatl, on 45247
Mr. Charles L. Sercu
The Dow Chemlcal Company
Washlngton, DC 20035
Dr. Peter M. Wolkonaky
Standard 011 Company 71ndlana
Mall Code 3905
Chlcago, IL 50530.
Dr. Ann Baker Jenklns
Envlronmental Affalrs
Allled Cozporatlon
Morrlstown. NJ mean
Mr. Rene u. Sentner
Shell 011 Company
Houston. TX 77001
Mr. John McCarthy
Koppers Company, rnc.
1201 Koppers Bulldlng
Plttsburgh, PA 15219
Staff Executlve:
u. Chrls Catheart
CMA
CMA 037751
EXHIBIT p
.MEMEER SERVICES DEPARTMENT
5mm: upon
The creatlon of thls department was announced at the January
1991 Board Meetlng.
Consequently, 1: has been 1n exlstance
for only 10 months.
1: 15 staffed by one professlonal and a
secretary.
RATIDNALE mu CREATING DEPARTMENT
The chemlcal 1ndustry has been under crltlcal pressure for
many years by envlronmentallsts, the medla and government, both
leglslatlve and regulatory.
As the 1ndustry 15 wldely spread across the country, mm some
wellideflned areas of heavy concentratlon, these pressures also
have been wldely spread. Eventually, the pressures extended
to and were applled by natlonal envlronmental groups, natlonal
medla and the Federal government.
CMA had no fomal mechanlsm at state and local levels to counter
the efforts dlrected agalnst the 1ndustry.
One was needed 7 a broadly based one to strengthen CMA'S advocacy
effectlveness on the natlonal scene. The need became even more
evldent Hlth the electlon of Presldent Reagan and ms commltment
m defederallzatlon.
Th1: turnlng m the states by the Federal government 1n no way
lessened the absolute necesslty for strength 1n Washlngton.
1:
reafflrmed the need, for now the 1ndustry was to face flghtlng
on 50 fronts (the states mm much of whlch would take place
llghtlng the fuse on lssues to explode stateﬁay’state rlght up
to Congress.
In the early '50:, some state and local groups representlng
the chemlcal 1ndustry 1n thelr respectlve areas were conned,
largely on thelr 1n1tlatlve. cm (then MCA7 had an oniagaln,
offiagaln love affalr mm these autonomous organlzatlons.
Some flourlshed, some died, others were qulte passlve.
In the
'60: and early V705, when support was Vital, CMA couldn't decld
what to do.
Eventually, those that survlved went thelr own way.
The relatlonshlp mm cm was not good.
That was how matters stood 1n January 1931.
(See attached
brochure: Today, Testerday, Tomorrow, 3 Erlef Look at State
Drganlzatlons.7
CMA 037752
DEPARTMENTAL OBJECTIVE
Bulld a strong, broadly based chemlcal 1ndustry state and local
structure to support CMA at the polnt of the pyramld 1n
Washlngton by:
Developlng a close, cooperatlve assoclatlon mm exlstlng
assoclatlons, counclls and chemlcal 1ndustry commlttees;
Helplng to found addltlonal Similar groups where
warranted;
Worklng 1n llke manner mm the corporate headquarters
of CMA members and, through them, mm thelr plants
1n local areas;
Studylng the chemlcal 1ndustry, seeklng to 61nd
companles ellglble for cm membershlp and recrult them
through the Membershlp Commlttee and the Board, whlle
worklng closely Hlth the cm offlces of Secretary and
Treasurer;
Servlng am through eyes and ears attuned to problems
upon whlch the Assoclatlon should act posltlvely;
Actlng as the catalyst to brlng Assoclatlon resources
to bear on problems and assure that needed semlnars,
symposla, pollcy posltlons and programs are flelded
where needed, prlnclpally mm state organlzatlons.
ACTION TO DATE
Top prlorlty has been glven m strengthenlng exlstlng state
groups and our tles Hlth them.
Th1: prlorlty also 1ncluded
helplng 1n flmlng the establlshment of four just comlng on
stream when the department was created.
The four brought to
19 the number of groups. One, Southern Callfornla, has Since
merged mm the Callfornla Chemlcal Industry Councll m constltute
a blanket organlzatlon for the state.
1: will, however. contlnue
as a satelllte group as most of the plant operatlons are 1n the
south, and there 15 need for 1: m contlnue to meet on concerns
pecullar to 1:: area.
(See 1n51de back cover of brochure for
115: of groups.)
The newest groups are 1n New York, Pennsylvanla, Connectlcut
and Tennessee.
mm member company personnel, we are worklng on bulldlng
relatlonshlps Hlth the chemlcal groups 1n5t1tuted under the
wlngs of the Assoclated Industrles of Kentucky and the Virginia
Manufacturers Assoclatlon.
We also are actlvely explorlng
the posslbllltes of asslstlng 1n the creatlon of unlts 1n North
Carollna. Arkansas and Iowa.
CMA 037753
To help us focus on crltlcal areas, we conducted two studles,
both of whlch are appended.
The flrst was dlvlded 1nto two parts.
The initial sectlon
covered the top 25 states as to value of shlpments.
All exlstlng
state groups fell 1nto thls category.
In conjunctlon mm the
State Actlvltles Dlvlslon of the Government Relatlons Department,
He then selected those remalnlng states most llkely to give
the 1ndustry problems and ranked them also as to value of
shlpments.
Th1: came to 15, and none has a state chemlcal
group.
Other categorles 1n the study, and ranked, were value added,
number of chemlcal employees 1n productlon, the percent of thls
to all manufacturlng employees 1n the state, the percent of
chemlcal employees to total state populatlon, the number of
CMA companles 1n the state and the number of thelr plants,
and the number of cm companles 1n the state mm 5100 mllllon
or more 1n annual sales.
of the three states currently under study for new groups,
North Carollna and Iowa fall 1nto the top 25.
Kentucky and
Virginia, Hlth whom we are worklng as noted earller, alsp
are 1n thls grouplng.
Thus, we Either have exlstlng or under
study organlzatlons 1n 19 of the 25. Those wlthout are targets
and 1nclude Indlana, South Carollna. Florlda, Georgla, Massachus tts,
Maryland and Wlsconsln.
Arkansas falls 1nto the set of 15, ranklng
thlrd 1n value of shlpments.
These studles have been dlstrlbuted m cm staff for needs
as they see 51: and elther have or Will be glven to all state
groups.
The second study, also attached, shows us the partlclpatlon
by CMA member companles 1n exlstlng state groups, accordlng
m thelr membershlp rosters supplled us by October 1, 1931.
As these groups accept members the year around, 1: 15 posslble
some CMA member companles have jolned or applled or are consmep
mg joining Since recelpt of rosters.
The brunt of support 15 borne by 15 m 20 percent of our members.
There are a number mm spotty membershlps; some mm none.
These are targets of opportunlty for broadenlng the 1ndustry's
outreach effort.
t
c
To consolldate our efforts to date and to further 1ncrease
mutually beneflclal worklng relatlonshlps, we scheduled the
Flrst Annual Meetlng of State Groups on November 4, the day
followlng the Semlannual Meetlng.
3
1
As of thls wrltlng, all but one of the state groups will
partlclpate and there 1: reason to belleve attendance will
be 100 percent.
Kentucky, Virginia and Iowa representatlves
also will attend.
:I
CMA 037754
an 1nducement/ each group was provlded one "Freebee" m
the Semlannual and State Meetlngs.
Any addltlonal attendees
bore the full charge.
Indlcated attendance/ agaln as of thls
writing, 15 approxlmately 40 or more.
as
The program 1ncluded the Vlce presldents for technlcal, legal,
government relatlons and communlcatlons spelllng out the servlces
avaliable to state groups. An equal portlon of the program
featured actlons by state groups.
One sectlon was devoted to
what they felt they need from us and how needs can be satlsfled.
Since the foundlng of the department, I have Visited, on thelr
home grounds, every exlstlng group at least once.
I have
had two or more Visits mm a number. speaklng at Executlve
CommlttEE. Semlannual and Annual Meetlngs.
The message:
what we are trylng to do and the how and why of 1:. The
receptlon, wlthout exceptlon, has been gratlfylng.
They feel
wanted. needed and appreclate the outstretched hand. Any
reluctance has largely been overcome.
Cooperatlon by all segments of cm staff has been excellent.
When called upon, response has been thorough and prompt. Also,
there has been no reluctance to call upon Member Servlces for
asslstance 1n reachlng state groups when speclflc needs exlst.
Further. many Valuable suggestlons have come from Varlous
departments.
ACTION FORECAST
All attendlng Will be asked to crlthue the Flrst
Annual Meetlng so that the second can be better,
more frultful.
New state groups will be formed as needed, and 15
55mm, as qulckly as condltlons permit.
Th romotlon of jolnt meetlngs by state groups will
be rthered.
The 1435 Chemlcal Councll already
has 1n lted the Callfornla Chemlcal Councll to meet
jolntl at 1:: Annual Meetlng.
If thls s successful,TCC plans to contlnue such efforts mm others.
The pass mnty of two to three reglonal meetlngs
of state roups under cm sponsorshlp Will be studled
and begun 15 feaslble.
Efforts m 1 contlnue to help state groups bulld
membershlp
Hopefully, here will be time to 1nst1tute a state
group newsl tter.
Servlces an Visits, as 1n1tlated, Hill contlnue
as needed.
CMA 037755
Devotlon of In re tune to 1nd1v1dual member company
needs and to ulldlng cm membershlp where cost effectlve.
ACTION REQUIRE
None 7 for 1nf matlon only
CMA
ED 7 November 3 1991
I
CMA 037755
EXHIBIT G
SPECIAL woman: ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Dbjectlves:
SPAC Hill advlse he Executlve Commlttee
on the acceptance of new programs, ensure
that all speclal ograms are conducted
1n a manner consls ent mm CMA pollcy
and Hlth the Specl 1 Program Guldellnes,
and revlew and mak recommendatlons on
all advocacy progra s on 1nd1v1dual chemi
leal 157 requested y a program panel or
staff.
Problems:
None
ecommendatlons:
Ex authorlzatlon of SPAC for one year
Impact:
Money:
There Will be no
impact.
Company Personnel: One rep ntatlve on
the Commlttee from each
of 15 companles.
Staff Personnel:
Actlon Requlred:
One staff executlve €07
ordlnatlng the work of
the commlttee. No Eddy
tlonal staff requlred.
Approval of recommendatlon
am
am 037757
TABLE OF courams
SPECIAL pnosmms ADVISORY COMMITTEE REPORT TO THE cm...
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
1
Proposed New Programs
1
Speclflc Recommendatlons to Panels
2
SPAC'S Recommendatlons to the Executlve Commlttee
4
ATTACHMENT 1:
BIOMEDICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIAL
PROGRAMS...AN ovmwmw
Mlsslon
1
Dlvlslon Summary
Staff Drganlzatlon
1
and Responslbllltles
2
Budget
3
Goals for 1991792
Longirange Plan
5
Major Accompllshments
a
Summarles of Programs
9
Table 1:
Blamedlcal and Envlronmental
Programs Budget Summary
Flgure 1:
Blamedlcal and Envlronmental Speclal Programs
D1V1510n...0rganlzatlon Chart
Appendlx A:
Speclal Programs Advlsory Commlttee 15mm
Appendlx B;
L15: of Speclal Programs
Appendlx Cs
Companles Partlclpatlng 1n Sp c131 Programs
cm 037759
SPECIAL pnosmms ADVISORY COMMITTEE
REPORT TO THE
cm EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Since 1:: flrst nestlng 1n January, 1980, the Speclal Programs
Advlsory Commlttee 15mm developed guldellnes for Che conduct of speclal
programs, revlewed all of the ongolng speclal programs, and made
recommendatlons on all proposed new programs. Significant recommendatlons
resultlng from SPAC'S revlews are summarlzed below,
pnoposw NEV woman:
Arsenlc
SPAC recommended approval of a new program on Arsenlc.
The prlmary
objectlve of the program 15 the educatlon of people Within regulatory
agencles through a jolntly sponsored arsenlc symposlum Hlth the Natlonal
Bureau of Standards. Th1: symposlum (November 475, 19317 Hill provlde a
means for Industry and government agencles to come to an understandlng of
costieffectlve regulatlon of arsenlc as a hazardous materlal through
knowledge of productlon and use patterns, toxlcologlc propertles, and the
presence of arsenlc 1n the envlronment.
Ethylene Dxlde
The Ethylene Dxlde Industry Councll was formed to m develop 1nfomatlon
regardlng responslble 1ndustry programs to control exposure to ethylene
oxldE; 1117 to develop relevant sclentlflc, technologlcal, and economc
data; and, 11117 to present such Infomatlon and data to v. s. governmental
bodles conslderlng regulatory controls pertaining to ethylene oxlde so as
to assure that such standards, regulatlons or polleles are reasonable,
sclentlflcally sound, and economlcally and soclally effectlve.
SPAC
recommended approval of the formatlon of thls Councll"
Polychlorlnated Blphenyls
Under the Chemlcal Regulatlons Advlsory Commlttee mum companles affected
by Che Court's declslon on Polychlorlnated Blphenyls (PCB57 1n1tlated two
surveys to provlde EPA Hlth 1nformatlon for promulgatlng a flnal
regulatlon. The estlmated cost of these surveys and other consultant fees
was $153,000; mm: budgeted the orlglnal phase and then asked chat the
program be moved to the Speclal Programs Dlvlslon. SPAC approved Che flrst
phase of a PCB speclal program whlch Hill Include conductlng two surveys,
analyzlng Che data from Che surveys and partlclpatlng 1n formal rulemaklng.
cm: contrlbuted $30,000 toward thls effort. SPAC Hill revlew the program
at she and of Phase I and Will make a recommendatlon on whether Phase II
should be contlnued under Speclal Programs.
New Source Perfomance Standard on Nonimetalllc Mlnerals
I>1e to lack of fundlng, the Envlronmental Management Commlttee transferred
3 request for a new program on Nonimetalllc Mlnerals to she Speclal
Programs Dlvlslon. Inltlally the burden of these regulatlons would have
cm 037759
bmn on the nonimetalllc mlneral Industry alone, but the precedent would be
set for the regulatory agency to take such actlona on ocher sectors of the
chemlcal 1ndustry. SPAC recommended approval of thls program Hlth the
Speclal Programs dlvlslon provldlng all admlnlstratlon and the
Envlronmental Dlvlslon provldlng all technlcal support. Subsequent to thls
recommendatlon. the SPA. under the new admlnlstratlbn, declded not to
pursue the proposed regulatlon, and therefore, the SPAC recommendatlon was
not brought to the Executlve Commlttee.
SPECIFIC Rmommmnmus TD mums
Acrylonltrlle
In 1975 CMA Signed a $575,300 contract to Investlgate the posslble toxlc
effects and the pharmacodynamlcs of lngested and Inhaled acrylonltrlle 1n
laboratory annuals.
In 1973 the contract was amended and the contract
amount ralsed to $547,900. The contractor submltted the report on the last
phase of thls study on December 9, 1980. At the same tlme, the contractor
submltted a flnal Involce contalnlng a costioverrun of $134,000.
am has
Inltlated ballotlng of panel members to determlne 15 they approve payment
of thls cost overrun. Several ballots remaln outstandlng.
Upon SPAC'S
recommendatlon the cm legal department conflmed that am 15 not
reponslble, under the terms of the contract. for the overrun.
Although
several companles have 5:111 not responded mm thelr ballots, staff and
cm counsel are worklng closely Hlth the contractor and the panel to
resolve the cost overrun.
Chlorobenzenes
When EPA lssued a TSCA Sectlon 4157 Draft Test Rules Package on
chlorobenzenes two cm groups became Involved. The cm: Testlng Task Group
identified broad pollcy and legal Issues and spoke Hlth EPA regardlng the
precedentisettlng Impllcatlons" The program panel, whlch has always been
researchiorlented, establlshed a Toxlcology Regulatory Task Group to
address speclflc toxlcologlcal Issues concernlng the 51x chlorobenzenes
recommended for Immedlate testlng.
In addltlon. 50cm formed the
Chlorobenzenes Producers Assoclatlon to assume an advocacy posltlon.
All
of these groups worked together to fom a unified Industry posltlon on the
Test Rules Package. SPAC recommended that these groups contlnue mm the
work they have begun untll the Federal Reglster notlce comes out.
SPAC
further recommended that as most of the companles partlclpatlng 1n cm
(research) and 50cm (advocacy) programs are the same, a conslderatlon be
glven to brlnglng both the chlorobenzenes research and advocacy programs
under one umbrella organlzatlon at an approprlate tune.
Ethylene mbmmlde
Audlts of the MCI and NIDSH studles were completed and an 1ndependent
audltor found that both of these studles were acceptable. SPAC, therefore,
on August 25, 1931, supported the panel's declslon to dlsband although they
suggested a new panel be formed to contlnue for advocacy.
Followlng thls
declslon. OSHA recelved a petition from the Teamsters Unlon to lower the
exposure 11mm on EDB from 20,000 ppb to 15 ppb. SPAC revlewed plans for a
reconstltuted panel on October 20, 1991',
2
cm 037750
Fluorocarbons
sFAc approved a llmlted advocacy role for the Fluorocarbons Program Panel
so chat the panel could make statements on sclence.
The flrst was 1n
response to the November 1979 NAS Report, "Stratospherlc Ozone Depletlon by
Halocarbons: Chemlstry and Transport."
SPAC recommended that the panel contlnue 1:5 llmlted advocacy charter and
appolnted two members to explore approprlate means of coordlnatlng the
AlllanCE. the CMA Fluorocarbons Panel and the cm Sectlon 4 Testlng Task
Force of the Chemlcal Regulatlons Advlsory Commlttee.
Ketones
SPAC endorsed the panel's plans to establlsh an early dlalogue Hlth EPA
regardlng the antlclpated TSCA Sectlon 4157 rule.
However. SPAC
recommended that the panel's charter be amended to Include epidemiologlc
studles and posslble evaluatlon of the envlronmental effects of ketone.
Phthalate Esters
In early 1980 the Phthalate Esters panel planned a materlal handllng survey
of the manufacturers, dlstrlbutors and users of phthalates. However, Since
cm 15 a trade assoclatlon representlng manufacturers, SPAC recommended
that all actlon be cabled untll the Soclety of the Plastlcs Industry could
be contacted. In the meantlme a study by the Natlonal Cancer Instltute
became avaliable whlch for the flrst tune ralsed health affects concerns
for phthalate esters.
In addltlon. based upon NCI'S flndlngs, EPA
requested addltlonal 1nformatlon on PMNs for phthalate esters.
The panel
was concerned that EPA had taken regulatory actlon on prellmlnary
1nformatlon and that EPA mlght come up mm an unreasonable TSCA sectlon
4137 rule. SPAC recommended that the panel add advocacy to 1:: Charter and
that they establlsh a dlalogue mm EPA on developmg a Voluntary? test
standard.
Th1: was a Valuable recommendatlon as can be seen by the
subsequent accompllshments of thls panel (sectlon 7.4 of the attachment).
Tltanlum Dloxlde
SPAC recommended that 1n the absence of any Significant findings 1n the
longitem Inhalatlon study 1n progress at duPont, the pmnel conslder
dlsbandlng.
mel Chlorlde
The mel Chlorlde Panel hlred an 1ndependent consultant to revlew the work
perfomed by Industrlal slowest mm under contract to cm.
Th1:
consultant recommended that cm examlne anlmal tlssues 5:111 avaliable from
the study. The panel dld not act upon thls recommendatlon. However, they
dld ask IBT for a refund of the $130,000 they had already paid under Che
contract. The panel was waiting for flnanclal resolutlon Hlth IBT before
submlttlng a flnal report to government agencles.
SPAC recommended that
the panel not Halt for resolutlon before submlttlng a flnal and report chat
they act up a th
consultants recommendatlon to do addltlonal
hlstopathology. The Panel followed thls rec mmendatlon.
3
cm 037751
21m; Dlalkyl Dlthlophosphata
SPAC heard a proposal for a new speclal program on zDDP. Although thls new
panel urns 1nterested 1n studylng the reproductlve role of zDDP 1n rats and
rabblts SPAC recommended that they conslder undertaklng an epldemlologlcal
study.
SPAC approved the panel's draft charter Hlth a strong
recommendatlon that 1: be expanded to 1nclude advocacy. The panel followed
thls recommendatlon.
SPAC'S mcammmnmus TO THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
smc's revlew of ongolng speclal programs, as well as proposals for
new programs, concentrated on sclentlflc and pollcy Issues, the adequacy of
professlonal and flnanclal support from partlclpatlng companles, the
avallablllty of CMA resources, and the 1ncluslon of advocacy 1n the panels'
charter.
The flrst year of revlews under the new Speclal Programs Guldellnes
provlded the members of SPAC mm Valuable 1n51ght 1nto the worklngs of
program panels. In the future, SPAC will concentrate on the Significant
actlvltles of the panels Since thelr last meetlng mm SPAC.
SPAC Will
also make sure chat recommendatlons made durlng prevlous revlews were acted
upon. Staff will keep SPAC 1nfomed of new actlons as they occur, rather
than waiting for a scheduled meetlng.
Further background on the functlonlng of the Speclal Programs
Dlvlslon. 1:: major accompllshments durlng the past year, and a summary of
each program 15 attached to thls report.
SPAC has now completed 1:: flrst year, as authorlzed by the Executlve
Commlttee.
SPAC 15 performlng a Valuable overslght functlon for cm
Speclal Programs and I therefore recommend raiauthorlzatlon of thls
Commlttee for a second year.
cm
4
cm 037752
1
ATTACHMENT 1
BIOMEDICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIAL pnosmms
AN ovmwmw
MIssIoN
Th« mlsslon of the cm Blamedlcal and Envlronmental Speclal Programs
Dlvlslon (Speclal Programs) Is to provlde manufacturers, processors, and/
or users of a chemlcal or chemlcals Hlth the opportunlty to support colletk
tlvely research and/or advocacy on speclflc chemlcals.
When referrlng to
Speclal Programs, advocacy Involves external communlcatlon, not deslgned
solely for 1nformatlon exchange, that relates to exlstlng or developlng
regulatlons. leglslatlon or litigation. cm serves partlclpatlng companles
by provldlng proper and effectlve admlnlstratlon of programs.
Sclentlflc Informatlon developed through research programs should pro*
mote the health and safety of the general publlc and of workers Involved 1n
manufacturlng, processlng, and usmg these chemlcals.
All Significant
findings and reports of CKAiadmlnlstared research programs are avaliable m
the publlc In a tlmely manner.
2.0 urvrsmu SUMMARY
cm approved the flrst "speclal project" 1n 1972. The Inltlal speclal
projects were excluslvely research orlented. The Intent at that tune was
for cm to collect and dlsburse the necessary funds, contract for the
research to be done. and provlde meetlng facllltles and survelllance over
the conduct of the meetlngs.
The time requlrements on cm staff were
expected to be minimal Since the partlclpatlng companles would provlde all
technlcal expertlse and management skllls necessary to conduct the pro*
grams. The admlnlstratlon of these programs was asslgned to CMA secrets?
1a: of several standlng commlttees.
The number of speclal programs admlnlstered by CMA Increased at a mod?
erate rate from 1972 to 1979. By the end of 1979, CMA was admlnlsterlng to
seventeen speclal programs. Since 1980, requests for cm to undertake new
speclal programs have 1ncreased conslderably. Th1: 1ncrease Is due malnly
to 1ncreased actlvltles related to the Toxlc Substances Control Act, Clean
Alr Act and Clean Water Act.
The Speclal Programs Dlvlslon presently
coordlnates research and/or advocacy for twentyithree speclal programs.
cm took 1:: flrst steps toward advocacy In 1977 when the Benzene Pro*
gram Panel was formed 1n response to a workeriexposure standard proposed by
OSHA. Industry belleved that the sclentlflc studles on whlch thls standard
was based were flawed. The Benzene Panel's Charter was to develop a sound
technlcal base that could be used by 1ndustry to challenge the proposed
regulatlons. The Benzene Panel...s Charter was expanded 1n November 1979 m
cm 037753
1
allow em Panal co represent the 1nterests of tha members of cm bafora
federal and scaca aganclas la all macaars ralaclag to safecy and haalch 157
sues arising out of aha productlon, raacelon, ralease, packaglng, repacki
mg, scoraga, transportatlon, handllng or usa of benzene. Slnce 1980, £157
teen program panels have broadened chalr charters m 1nclude advocacy or
begun programs whlch 1ncluded advocacy“
In September 1979, aha cm Executlve Commlttee authorlzed aha fomai
tlon of a Speclal Programs Advlsory Group 15mm.
SPAG was subsequently
glven tha status of Speclal Comalctee whlch 15 now known as the Speclal
Programs Advlsory Commlttee 15mm. Three major responslbllltles of SPAC
are: (17 co revlew requests for 1nd1v1dual product advocacy by speclal pro*
gram panels and detemlne that approprlate condltlons for these advocacy
posltlons are met; (27 to revlew each ongolng speclal program at least once
a year to provlde guldance based on SPAC members' expertlse; and, m to
make certaln that advocacy actlons of each Speclal Program are 1n namony
Hlth CMA Standlng CommLttae posltlons.
Appendlx A 115:: current members
of SPAC.
Durlng 1931, SPAC completed revlew of all ongolng speclal
programs.
In addltlon. 1n 1980 and 1931, SPAC approved CMA undertaklng new
speclal programs on arsenlc, ethylene oxlde, glycol ethers, ketones, poly?
chlorlnated blphenyls, and 11m: dlalkyl dlthlophosphates.
Appendlx B 115:: all speclal programs undertaken by CMA to date.
Appendlx c 115:: companles that are currently partlclpatlng 1n speclal
programs.
3.0 STAFF ORGANIZATION ASP RESPONSIBILITIES
The Speclal Programs Dlvlslon has a staff of thlrteen, 1nclud1ng a
Dlrector. Elva program admlnlstrators, a program coordlnator,‘ Elva
secretarles. and one word processor“
One program admlnlstrator and one
secretary devote thelr time excluslvely to the Fluorocarbon Program.
The
other four program admlnlstrators and four secretarles are responslble for
the remalnlng twentyitwo programs. Flgure 1 outllnes the organlzatlon c
Speclal Programs Hlth respect to both the staff and the speclflc programs.
Program admlnlstrators prepare for and attend panel and task group
meetlngs, prepare records of meetlngs, and Hrlte and admlnlster all con*
tracts 1n thelr respectlve areas. In addltlon, program admlnlstrators:
o
malntaln awareness of pertlnent regulatlons relatlng to panel's
actlvltles;
o
communlcate mm government agencles on sclentlflc and regulatory
matters;
0
coordlnate 1nformatlon flow to and from the agencles, the com?
panles, other trade assoclatlons and academlc communltlesi
o
coordlnate the development of advocacy and regulatory posltlon
2
cm 037754
I
papers mm approprlate CMA staff, standlng commlttees, aad
outslda consultants; and:
o
provlde.mon1tor1ng and audltlng servlces for ongolng research
projects.
The Speclal Programs Dlvlslon keeps the offlce of General Counsel
1nformed of the status of ongolng panel actlvltles"
BUDGET
To date CMA program panels have spent $20,430,237 1n research and
advocacy programs on 24 famllles of chemlcals (see Table 17.
Overhead Relmbursement Budget
cm charges partlclpatlng companles the full costs, 1nclud1ng
overhead. for admlnlstratlon of speclal programs" The program account
15 charged 5300 per day for professlonal staff. Th1: charge 1ncludes
both the threat and allocated costs of full time professlonal and
clerlcal Speclal Programs staff and routlne professlonal or support
asslstance from the Technlcal, Legal, Government Relatlons, Communist
tlons. and Admlnlstratlve Servlces Departments.
Other threat costs, such as outiofitown travel. meetlng room and
program equlpment rentals when meetlng outslde cm, conference calls,
telex, unusually large prlntlng and malllngs, etc., are charged as
mlscellaneous admlnlstratlve expenses to the program.
Other cm
professlonal staff time, 15 requlred to work on speclflc or noniroui
tlne aspects of the program, 15 charged at the same rate as the pro*
gram admlnlstrator. In addltlon to an overhead relmbursement of $300
per day, the cm Speclal Programs Dlvlslon 15 credlted monthly Hlth
0.752 of recelved but not expended speclal program funds as Interest.
Interest recelved on nonidlsbursed Speclal Program funds 15 used to
defray admlnlstratlve costs not recovered by the daily race.
In the
case of the fluorocarbon program, the unexpended funds balance 15
approxlmately $2 million. Th1: has resulted 1n 3 speclal agreement
Hlth the Program Panel to credlt 1:5 funds mm 1nterest at 92 and
charge a flxed fee of 515,300 per month from June 1991 to May 1932.
Th1: arrangement produces an effectlve mun“; rate of 5925 per day
Instead of the normal $500 per day. The flxed fee of 515,500 will be
revlewed 1n March 1992 for flscal year 199271993.
Panel Research/Advocacy Budget
cm requlres wrltten commltment for the full amount of a
study budget from all partlclpatlng companles before executlng
study eontrscmsy. A separate account 15 establlshed to recelve
and dlsburse funds for each program.
3
cm 037755
AS a matter of cm flscal pollcy, partlclpatlng companlas
are invoiced for a minimum of 502 of the projected flscal year
commltments. Inltlal 1nvolc1ng occurs unmedlately after part1c1*
patlng company management approval of the program actlvltles.
Durlng the course of the program, addltlonal collectlons are made
as necessary to malntaln a reserve from whlch dlsbursements are
made. Reserves are malntalned as low as posslble under sound
flnanclal management.
A new phase of a program beglns whenever there 15 a change
1n composition of sponsorlng companles. At the completlon of any
phase of a program, uncommltted funds are carrled over to a sub?
sequent phase. If a company voluntarlly drops out of a program
at the completlon of all contracted work, a refund 1: made 15 the
proirated balance of uncommltted funds exceeds $2,500 for that
company. A company whlch voluntarlly drops out of a program
durlng an ongolng study 1: expected to provlde 1:: full flnanclal
commltment to the current study phase 1nclud1ng any addltlons or
extenslons whlch were approved durlng the term of 1:5 parmmpr
tlon.
A flnanclal statement detalllng all expenses and commltments
15 prepared monthly for each program. A copy of the statement 15
provlded to panel members at thelr meetlngs to keep them 1nformed
of the flnanclal status of the panel.
GOALS Fox 1991 7 1992
o to contlnue worklng on establlshlng new coatacts Hlthln
regulatory agencles;
o to establlsh batter communlcatlon Hlth both v.5. and noh7D.S.
trade assoclatlons 1nvolved 1n actlvltles related to Speclal
Programs;
0 to enhance the sclentlflc credlblllty of CMA by promotlng the
publlcatlon of CmAiadmlnlstarad research 1n peer revlew
journals;
0 to achleve better recognltlon of CMA'S eapabllltres by 1mm,
atlng the Speclal Programs News Letter startlng January
0 to establlsh semiannual meetlngs Hlth representatlves of other
trade assoclatlons Involved 1n admlnlstratlon of toxlcologlc
and epldemlologlc research.
4
cm 037755
LDNCrRANGE PLAN
Through much hard work on Che pare of cm staff and panel members',
CMA’Bdmlnlseered research Is developmg a reputatlon for Its objectlvlty
and Integrlty. However, there Is room for Improvement.
Speclal Programs
needs to 1ncrease the chemlcal 1ndustry's awareness that Speclal Programs
has the expertlse m:
o admlnlster research and advocacy programs; and,
o provlde sclentlflc servlces wthh, untll recently, have not been
avaliable. expected, or requested.
To accompllsh thls. Speclal programs has 1dent1£1ed steps whlch, should
be taken over the next few years. These Include:
o reduclng the work load per program admlnlstrator to enable hlm/her
to undertake the challenge of new casks/programs;
o encouraglng staff, through educatlonal beneflts, to expand exlstlng
and develop new expertlse 1n sclence and busmess management;
0 hlrlng new staff to complement exlstlng staff 1n sclentlflc
dlsclpllnes not already adequately covered;
0 hlrlng addltlonal support staff capable of assumlng a portlon of a
prograxrk admlnlstrators nonisclentlflc admlnlstratlve dutles 1n order
to permit the program admlnlstrator to devote more time to
sclentlflc and liaison functlons;
o playlng a larger role 1n penetratlng the Washlngton scene and
1nteract1ng mm regulatory agencles and professlonal socletles by
establlshlng good professlonal relatlonshlps mm peers In the
regulatory agencles, the Industry, and governmentifunded research
laboratorles;
o utlllzlng the contacts and experlence of 1nd1v1dual program
admlnlstrators more effectlvely Hlthln the Speclal Programs Dlvlslon
and ocher Dlvlslons of CMA;
0 completely reevaluatlng the method of compensatlng cm for servlces
provlded;
o developmg the flexlblllty m provlde servlces panels expect and for
whlch they are willing to pay; and,
o publlclzlng Speclal Programs accompllstazents and Capabilities 1n:
cm News
ChemEeology
The newlyiproposed Speclal Programs Newsletter
Peer revlew journals (publlcatlon of research results)
News releases on Significant findings
5
cm 037757
mama Accommsamms
7.1 Chlorobenzenes
Panel toxlcologlsts provlded eechnlcal 1nput m the Chloroi
benzene: Producers Assoclatlon mm for thelr submlsslon to EPA
1n response to EPA'S proposed TSCA Sectlon 4157 Test Rule on
Chlorobenzenes. Th1: group of panel toxlcologlsts has contlnued
to work closely mm the CPA 1n the development of a Voluntary
1ndustry testlng program that wjuld be acceptable by EPA 1n lleu
of fomal test rule.
Followlng earller dlalogues between CMA/CPA and spa a
......declslonitree'* approach to tastlng of commerclal chlorobenzenes
was adopted. The outllne for thls proposal 1: now bemg revlewed
by EPA. The testlng program as now envlsloned would be much more
conservatlve 1n scope than that orlglnally outllned by EPA 1n
thelr proposed Test Rule.
7.2 Ethylene Dxlde
The m councll Is organlzed In such a way that 1: 15 able to
respond 1mmedlately to emergency Situations. A petition :9 OSHA
to lssue an emergency temporary standard of 1 ppm was submltted
on August 13. 1931. Wlthln two weeks the Councll, worklng on
advlce from 1:: regulatory and sclentlflc commlttees and outslde
counsel, prepared a preclse, detalled response whlch they sub?
mltted durlng a meetlng mm OSHA on September 2.
Th1: meetlng
was also attened by the Amerlcan Hospltal Assoclatlon and the
Veterans Admlnstratloniboth of whlch were anxlous to joln mm
the Councll to present a unlted Industry posltlon. on September
29 OSHA denled the petltlon.
Fluorocarbons
o
The Program ha made substantlal contrlbutlons to the scleni
tlflc understa ding of what 15 happenlng la the stratosphere.
The calculated ozone depletlon at steady state (approxlmately
100 years from now has fluctuated between 52 and more Chan
202. Current c-lculatlons 1nd1cate 52.
o
The Program ha achleved a reputatlon for sclentlflc objetr
tlvlty and 1nt-gr1ty seldom attrlbuted m 1ndustryisponsored
effort.
0
There has been cooperatlon mm government agencles through?
out the world .nd mm 1nternatlonal agencles. Research con*
ducted by govenment agencles has been funded or caifunded
and research um unlversltles or prlvate laboratorles has
been caifunded Hlth government support.
0
CMA 15 the onl member of the Coordlnatlng Commlttee on the
Ozone Layer of the Unlted Natlons Envlronment Program not
a
CMA 037759
4
representlng . aacloaal government or as Inceraatlonal
agency.
0
Perhaps she g nicest coatrltauclon has been Che Influence on
Che government funded stratospherlc research, partlcularly In
Che v.5. The roductlvlty of government agency research has
been Improved substantlally over Che past Elva years. At
least In part ms has been due to the methodology followed
and advocated hy the Industryisponsored program and the
overslght and revlew provlded by the Fluorocarbon Program
Panel.
7.4 Phthalate stars
0
The Phthalate stars Program Panel has developed a Voluntary
test Program 0 address potentlal health and envlronmental
effects of a lass of compounds.
0
The panel has worked mm Che Test Rules Development Branch
mum of she Envlronmental Protectlon Agency and has galned
thelr accepts as of the test program.
mm; 15 curre tly
proceedlng mm agency revlew of the program and we expect
offlclal accetance by mldiNovember.
o
The Panel Is -pt1m15t1c that EPA will declde that the data do
not warrant a 4167 finding at thls tune"
o
The FDA Task lroup has developed a Voluntary cast program for
DEHA whlch 15 almed at detemlnlng Che cause of the bloassay
results. Th1: program will be presented to FDA Hlth the hope
chat Che FDA 111 accept the program 1n lleu of an Interlm
regulatlon or ban on DEHA.
o
The FDA Task lroup has successfully altered Che elme table
Within tho; Bueau of Foods for regulatory actlon on DEHA.
Th1: delay ha- allowed FDA and CMA sclentlsts m dlscuss the
sclentlflc ls-ues to develop mutually acceptable regulatory
actlons m as-ure publlc safety and she contlnued use of an
unreplaceable substance, DEHA, In food contact applicatlons.
7.5 Polychlor hated Blphenyls
There has has a Spirit of mutual cooperatlon between CMA
and EPA Since she beglnnlng of thls program. EPA representatlves
worked Hlth A 1n developmg our surveys and presentlng a sym7
poslum on the-e surveys to Industry and other trade assoclatlon
representatlv s.
o
CMA obtalned he cooperatlon of almost sox of 1:5 membershlp
1n the 50 ppm Incldental generatlon survey.
7
CMA 037759
0
CMA has contlued co malntaln on opsa dlalogue Hlth ochar
crada assoclalons 1nvolved la collactlag data for EPA...
especlally th. Natlonal Electrlcal Manufacturers Assoclatlon
and tha Edlso Electrlc Instltute.
o
CMA submltted to EPA a narratlve dlssertatlon on tha problems
and costs ass-clated mm low level PCB analysls.
Th1:
report was we 1 accepted by the Agency and recelved good
coverage 1n sveral trade publlcatlons.
o
In order to 1 sure the objectlvlty of the data generated by
1:: current r-und robln. CMA secured the partlclpatlon of
several EPA l-boratorles 1n addltlon to member company labs.
1: 15 hoped t at the data generated from thls cooperatlve
effort will dmonstrate to EPA the Varlablllty of analytlcal
results whlch must be consldered la writing and enforclng a
regulatory an off level for' P033.
SUMMARIES
Speclal Progr.m Advlsory Commlttee
The Speclal p ogram Advlsory Commlttee (sum was conned to
provlde the p ogram Panels mm multkdlsmplmary expertlse 1n
areas of Sale tlflc research and governmental advocacy.
SPAC
revlews each peclal program on an annual, basls and once a year
reports to th- cm Executlve Commlttee on the progress 5 each
program"
Controversles whlch exlst elther Within a panel or between
staff and pan-ls whlch cannot be resolved at staff level, are
brought to spa for revlew and recommendatlon. SPAC revlews all
new and revls-d programs for conslstency Hlth Assoclatlon
pollcy.
Acrylonltrlle (AN)
The Arerylonl rlle Program 15 concerned mm the
epldemlology: toxlcology, and envlronmental aspects of processes
1nvolv1ng ac lonltrlle, 1:5 copolymers and 1:: end products.
The program .5 begun 1n 1974 to develop addltlonal data on the
toxlcology 0 AN. Th1: was accompllshed through annual exposure
studles by 1 Elation and lngestlon.
An epldemloluy study was not conducted because of lack of
speclflc exp- ure data for most of the perlod m be studled as
well as cuss ultles assoclated wlch deslgnatlng a sultable
control grou. Several partlclpatlng companles conducted thelr
own 1nternal epldemlology studles, three of whlch have been
publlshed 1n detall.
a
CMA 037770
FDA has been 1nterested la foodicontact appllcatlons of AN
polymers. «seclally beverage bocclas.
However. aha ’anal dld
aoc assume a advocacy posltlon on thls Issue.
The Soclety .5
Plastlcs Ind stry conducted advocacy related? :9 OSHA regulatlons
on AN. but a A was not Involved.
As a result 5 proposed regulatlons by EPA In 1980, the
monomer and olymer producers declded to charter a new
organlzatlon under 50cm :9 Eulflll the necessary advocacy role.
Th1: new gro p Will also perform any future research on
Acrylonltrlln The CMA panel voted to dlsband upon completlon of
1:: current esearch.
Allyl Chlorle
Concern over the carclnogenlc hazard attrlbuted :9 Vinyl
chlorlde pro ted the formatlon of the AC Program Panel 1n Jani
nary, 1975. he panel has so far undertaken three research pro*
jects: a ter.tology study, a pharmacoklnetlc and metabollc study
and a Bniday 1nhalatlon probe study.
The need for addltlonal
research Hll be detemlned after the results of these studles
are evaluate.
An Arsenlc Pogram Panel was establlshed In the flrst quay
ter of 1931. The panel's objectlves are m:
17 gather In omai
tlon; 27 connuct necessary research to compllment exlstlng 1nfor*
matlon; 37 eucate regulators; and 47 undertake regulatory advoi
cacy.
The panel's 1rst priority was to sponsor an arsenlc symposllas and an 1nidepth crltlcal llterature revlew on the health
effects assolated mm arsenlc.
The symposlu , scheduled for.
November 475 1n Galthersburg, Md. 1: bemg cosponsored Hlth the
Natlonal Burau of Standards. Sesslon toplcs 1nclude Industrlal
sources and Se: of arsenlc, blamedlcal and envlronmental peri
spectlves, ad epldemlology"
The llteratu e revlew 15 underway
November 199 . The panel may Inltlate
needs 1dent1 led 1n thls revlew and
regardlng prsent and proposed arsenlc
and should in completed 1n
research stules based on
may undertak advocacy
standards.
The Benzene rogram Panel was formed In November 197a~
The
Panel assessd the data used by NIDSH and OSHA 1n proposlng work?
place stands d: for benzene. developed 1:: own recommendatlons,
and gathered addltlonal data m substantlate establlshment of a
standard.
9
CMA 037771
Th« panel co tlnues co m concerned Hlth expanslon of the
toxlcologlcal and epldemlologlcal data hast, development of
1ndustry gulellnes for workplace standards, and health and
safety aspec s of EPA'S proposed Natlonal Emlsslon Standards for
Hazardous A1 Pollutants (NESEAP7.
The panel co leted a benzene reproductlon study whlch
showed no Go oundirelated adverse effects 1n male and female
rats exposed to levels up to 30x the present workplace standard.
CMA and the « erlcan Petroleum Instltute have 1n1tlated an
extenslve en day Inhalatlon study of benzene toxlclty 1n rats and
mice whlch w 11 be used to set dose levels for a subsequent
twoiyear chr-nlc benzene study.
An epldemlol-gy study of
approxlmatel 14,000 workers 1n nine plants should be completed
1n 199v
Butylated a roxytoluene (BET)
The BET Panel was formed 1n response to a proposed interim
regulatlon Issued by the FDA 1n Hay, 1977. The panel's goal 1:
to collect toxlcologlcal 1nfomatlon on BHT and to recommend
research to 5111 any data gaps whlch mlght exlst.
An Agency p oposal Pendlng was publlshed on December 31,.
1979, but t e flnal rule 15 5:111 not out. The panel expects FDA
to recommen that only a Bniday subchmmc study be undertaken.
The panel 1 waiting for v.5. government actlon before caklng
further act on on BET.
The French overnment recently began phaslng out BET as a
threat food addltlve and 15 at present revlewlng the use of BET
as an 1nd1rct addltlve. The jolnt FAD/WRD Expert Commlttee on
Food Addltl as recently extended the temporary Average Dally
Intake (mm for BET, pendlng recelpt of addltlonal testlng
data.
Chlorobenze e5 1:137
The Chlorob-nzenes Program Panel began 1:: program 1n 1974
mm the co duct of a worldwlde llterature search on avaliable
health data regardlng monochlorobenzene (Mas), orthoidlchl robenzene (ones) and paraidlchloro benzene (PDCB).
Slnce that
tune. the p.nel has been concerned mm expandlng the mxmw
loglcal dat. base on these three compounds and has recently added
a fourth (1.2.47trlchlorobenzane7 to a proposed test program.
In October gen, the panel 1n1tlated a serles of teratology
studles on CB. ones and PDCB 1n rats and rabblts. To clarlfy
results obt.1ned 1n the ma study 1n rabblts, a followup study
was conduct-d 1n thls specles. A draft flnal report on both MCB
studles 15 -xpected by the end of the year. The ones research was
completed a d interim data are bemg assembled; annuals go on
test 1n the PDCB teratology study 1n November 1931.
10
CMA 037772
The panel h.s worked closely Vlch Che Chlorobenzenes
Producers A soclatlon mm In fomulatlng comments on EPA'S
proposed ru as for testlng of chlorobenzenes under TSCA Sectlon
4137. The C'A has held a serles of dlscusslons Hlth EPA 1n an
effort to dvelop a Voluntary 1ndustryisponsored testlng program
1n lleu of . formal test rule. A proposal outllne was developed
and submlttd m the Agency. If approved, the CPA has asked the
panel to pr-Vlde fundlng and admlnlstratlon for the program.
Epoxy Resln mm
The Speclal Program on Epoxy Reslns was approved 1n July,
1977. The p.nel was formed to evaluate the avaliable health
effects lltrature on Epoxy Reslns and to sponsor necessary
research.
Inltlally, he panel declded to concentrate on
ElsphenoliA eplchlorohydrlniderlved epoxy reslns.
10
The panel 1 initiating an advocacy role by requestlng that
OSHA remove Blsphenol A dlglycldyl ether from osaA's candldate
carclnogen 15:.
Ethylene Dlnromlde (BOB)
Concerned .nout posslble government regulatory actlon, the
panel was fumed 1n 1979.
on December 14, 1977, EPA Issued 3
Notlce of Rbuttable Presumptlon Agalnst Reglstratlon mum.
The agency oncluded that presumptlons for oncogenlclty, mutai
genlclty an reproductlve dlsorders had not been rebutted.
A subchronl Inhalatlon study conducted by Dow Chemlcal
Toxlcology 'esearch Laboratory showed that repeated subchronle
exposure of rats to 10 or 40 ppm of BBB 1nduced pathologlc
changes 1n he resplratory eplthellum of the nasal turblnate.
Subsequent ostiexpoeure phase revealed a lack of progresslon of
the leslons, Hlth almost complete reverslon toward normal
h15tolog1c.ppearance of the nasal turblnate.
Two addltl- 31 studles were conducted by the Natlonal Cancer
Instltute 1 (:17 and the Natlonal Instltute for Dccupatlonal
Safety and ealth mmsm. The panel conducted thlrdiparty
audltlng on both of these studles. The Independent audltor found
chat both — udles were of acceptable quallty and thelr findings
Valld. Sine EDB was shown to be carclnogenlc 1n both studles,
there 15 n- need for Either contlnued research or an advocacy
program. T a panel therefore declded m dlsband.
However. t a
panel has neen reactlvated as a result of the Natlonal Brother?
hood of Te. sters' petition to OSHA to lower the current worker
exposure s-andard from 20,000 ppb to 15 ppb.
n
CMA 037773
9.10 Ethyl-ne chhlorlda (quay
Th« Ethyle e chhlorlda Program Panel was conned la Febru7
ary, 1975 lo evaluate aha adequacy of knowledge relatlng to EDD.
The panel nltlated a chronlc Inhalatlon, a metabollc, and a
teratogenl study la experlmental annuals. The Panel declded m
dlsband, pndlng the acceptance of all flnal reports on thls
research. ms declslon was reversed when 1: was learned chat
EPA was so slderlng proposlng a TSCA Sectlon e137 rule.
9.11 Ethyl-ne Dxlde (Em
A study coducted at Bushyikun labs showed Ethylene Dxlde m
be carclnoenlc In rats. Industry was Interested In gatherlng
1nfomatlo on the safe handllng of Ethylene Dxlde whlch led to
the format on of the Ethylene Dxlde Industry Councll on July 30,
1931. The ouncll operates through an Executlve Commlttee and
four operalng commlttees: Sclentlflc, Regulatory, Flnance and
Membershlp and Communlcatlons.
The Councl Is developmg 1nformatlon regardlng responslble
1ndustry p ograms m: 17 control exposure to ethylene oxlde; 27
to develop relevant sclentlflc, technologlcal and economlc data;
and. 37 to cooperate mm other natlonal and 1nternatlonal organi
lzatlons h.v1ng 51mllar objectlves.
The Councl .wlll present
thls Infor atlon and data to any Unlted States federal, state or
munlclpal overnmental body conslderlng regulatory controls 0
ethylene o 1de so as to assure that such standards, regulatlons
or pollc1E, are reasonable. sclentlflcally sound, and economy
Cally and oclally effectlve.
The Councl developed a response to the petition ﬁlled by
the Publlc Cltlzen Health Research Group and the Amerlcan Fed?
eratlon of Stats. County and Munlclpal Employees to lower the
exposure 5 andard for ethylene oxlde.
The petltl-n asked that
the elght our TWA be lowered from 50 ppm to 1 ppm and that a
shortitem exposure level of 5 ppm be establlshed. Representai
tives of t e Councll mat mm ossA offlclals on September 2 m
dlscuss Inustry's eoacern regardlng the petition. on September
29 OSHA de led the petltlon.
9.12 Fluo -carbons (FC7
The Fluor- arbon Program was fomally organlzed 1n the
Sprlng of 1973 Hlth essentlally all of the Free World producers
of chlorofluorocarbons 1:17:57 supportlng the effort. The panel's
initial p mass was to detemlne the fate of (1ch 1n the annoy
phere and the effects they may produce on plants or annuals.
There was no susplclon of thelr effect on the stratosphere.
mm the ubllcatlon of the Ozone Depletlon Theory 1n June,
1974 she ’rogram was expanded and accelerated.
To data, nler
$10,000.00 has been spent 05 thls research. There 15 no 1nd1cai
tlon that the partlclpants 1ntend to curtall thls effort 1n the
1mmedlate future.
12
CMA 03777
The panel 1131s: 1:: fundlng m sclentlflc research and 1:5
advocacy .o dlssealnatlon of research results and 1ntezpretatlon
of the st.te of the sclence. Leglslatlve and regulatory advocacy
Is handle by a coalltlon of cm producers and users, the A1117
ance for 'esponslble (1?: Pollcy. The Alllance depends on the
Fluorocaron Prograa Panel for sclentlflc data,
9.13 Glyc-l Ether: (Ggy
The Glyco Ether: Prograa was foraed on June 25, 1980 and 15
concerned prlaarlly Hlth the alkyl and dlalkyl ether: of ethylene
glycol an dlethylene glycol, selected ether: of propylene
glycol, a d thelr acetlc acld esters.
The panel conducted a
revlew an evaluatlon of the publlshed and avaliable unpubllshed
llteratur on health and envlronaantal effects.
As a resu t of
the llter.ture revlew the panel has developed a multliphase
testlng p ograa. Th1: prograa Includes testlng of:
Ethylene
Glycol Mo ooethyl Ether (Em. Ethylene Glycol Monobutyl Ether
(EB), and Ethylene Glycol Mbnoethyl Ether (EB) 1n 1991 (Phase 17
for terat-logy and posslble reproductlve effects. Phase 1x Hill
begln 1n 992 and Includes teratology studles on:
Ethylene
Glycol Mo oethyl Ether Acetate (EE Acetate) and Propylene Glycol
Monooethy Ether (PM). Phase II also 1ncludes a subchronlc study
of EB and a research study 5:111 under development, whlch will
allow a c-mparatlve assessment of glycol ether: mm thelr
acetates. A Phase II testlng prograa on other glycol ether: may
be develoed 1n 1932.
The Glyc-l Ether: Program Panel currently 15 conslderlng
developl . exposure data and has begun a liaison prograa Hlth
mm and SMA. The panel 15 also conslderlng what role, 15 any,
they H15 :9 play In an advocacy prograa Hlth EPA and/or OSHA.
Currant .Vocacy actlvltles 1nvolve 1nteractlons Hlth muse,
ACGIH, a - ECETDC.
In 1979-1Ve ketones, aethyl ethyl ketone 1mm, methyl
lsobutyl ketone (MIBK), mesltyl oxlde (Mm. lsophorone and
cyclohex.none, were recommended for testlng under Sectlon 4m of
TSCA by me Interagency Testlng Commlttee. The Ketones Panel met
for the 1rst tune on January 23, 1980. Thelr flrst actlvlty was
to assem-le all toxlcology llterature on eight ketones, 1nclud1ng
the Elva on the ITC Llst. Both publlshed and unpubllshed (from
the flle- of partlclpatlng companles) studles were revlewed and
prlnclpa areas of deflclencles 1n toxlcology 1nfomatlon mentk
ﬁled. :1 as the Industrlal Health Foundatlon mm already had a
program .n cyclohexanone, the present scope of the Ketones Panel
15 llmltd to the four remalnlng ketones on the ITC Llst.
A revlse EPA schedule resulted from a rullng 1n favor of
the Natual Resources Defense Councll whlch had sued EPA for
13
nonicomp lance under Saecloa 4 by ac: havlng 1n1tlated rulemaklng vmmn aha one year deadllne. The sum resulted 1n dead?
llnes of 1992 for cyclohexanone and 1993 for the remalnlng four
ketones. Further reschedullng resulted In deadllnes 1n 51:171992
for all 1Ve ketones.
The pane 15 currently undertaklng an
advocacy program on four of the ketones on the ITC Llst: MEK,
MIBK. MD and lsophorone. The program 1nvolves developmg use and
exposure 1nformatlon. as well as a Voluntary test program.
A emay nhalatlon study on methyl lsobutyl ketone (szky
15 curre tly underway and reproductlon and teratology studles are
under co slderatlon. The panel will follow closely compllmentary
testlng -n methyl ethyl ketone by cm, and methyl lsoamyl ketone
by Eastm.n Kodak. The panel has met once Hlth EPA on testlng
recommenatlons for ketones under Sectlon 4157 and 15 developmg
a docume t for submlsslon to the Agency.
The docu ent will
present ummarles of toxlclty data on the four ketones and use
and expoure 1nformatlon. An overvlew of the research program
will als- be 1ncluded.
The Phosene Panel was conned 1n Aprll, 1975.
1:5 pu -se
15 to m.1m11e safety 1n the productlon and use of phosgene, to
reduce u e posslblllty of exposure 1nc1dents, and m d vel p
effectl e dlagnostlc procedures and therapeutlc countermeasures.
The pan-l 15 studylng means for monltorlng concentratlons of
phosgen- 1n alr, means of evaluatlng actual exposures to phosgene
as a gu de to medlcal treatment, and means of preventlng
1nc1den s of phosgene release. Toward thls objectlve, the panel
has tuned:
0 two a lmal studles and publlshed two papers 1n the Archlves
of Envlonmental Health (These studles suggested posslble
mechanl-ms of Phosgene polsonlng and candldate therapeutlc
o a wor dwlde llterature search; and:
o a thld annual study dlrected toward exposure of candldate
therape tlc agents expected to be effectlve based on the
llteratre search or on results from the flrst two anlmal
researc projects.
In orde to 1mprove englneerlng and safety practlces durlng
the manfacturlng or use of phosgene, the panel 15 structurlng
and conwuctlng four surveys to 1dentlfy and update thls infamy
tlon. Dpont and Dow have each conducted 1nihouse retrospectlve
epldeml-logy studles on workers exposed to phosgene.
The panl
does no currently 61nd 1: feaslble to sponsor a prospectlve
study d e m the absence of a controlled, phosgene*only exposure.
14
CMA 037 7a
1
To 1mp .ve worker safety, Che panel Is writing Hlth 1nstrui
men: delgners and manufacturers to develop 1nstrumentatlon mm
maxlmu sensltlvlty for both 1ndustrlal (process) and personal
monlto ng, develop protectlve clothlng, and self contalned
breath . g devlces. The panel 15 also explorlng unproved 1n7plant
safety practlces and developmg optlmal postiexposure dlagnostlc
proced res and therapeutlc countermeasures.
9.15 p thalate Eaters um
The cm Phthalate Esters Program Panel, whlch was conned 1n
1972, rlglnally concentrated 1:5 efforts on studylng the
envlro ental effects of phthalates.
Extens Ve llterature
survey- at that tune Indlcated llttle or no concern over the
health effaets of phthalates" The Interagency Testlng Commlttee
recommnded only envlronmental testlng on the phthalate ester
class “5 compounds. Under Che provlslons of Sectlon 4 of the
Toxlc .ubstances Control ACt (Tscm, EPA could develop test rules
for en 1ronmental testlng; however, the phthalate esters panel
began wevelopment of a comprehenslve Voluntary envlronmental
effect test program.
As a rsult of a 1980 draft report from the ml to the
Natlon-l Toxlcology Program whlch shows that dl’27ethylhexyl
phthal-te (DEEP; also wldely known as Do?) causes hepatocellular
carcln-ma at hlgh dose levels 1n laboratory rodents, phthalate
esters recelved 1ncreased attentlon from regulatory agencles.
mm c e dlsclosure of the new mp flndlngs, Che Program Panel
expan-d 1:5 efforts to Include a comprehenslve testlng program
to adress Che human health concerns. The goal was to develop a
compr-henslve Voluntary test program that would develop test data
requled under Sectlon 4 of TSCA, but wlthout the 1mposltlon of
manda-ory test rules.
The e rs: phase of the comprehenslve envlronmental effects
and h man health effects testlng program 1: ready to be 1mple*
manta. The human health effects portlon has been deslgned to
examl e a llmlted number of compounds on a rlsk assessment basls.
The snudles whlch comprlse thls phase of the program will gener7
ate suund sclentlflc data chat can be appllcable to phthalate
ester as a class. rather than to speclflc chemlcals. Allocatlon
of cots, was developed to 1nclude all the affected Industrles,
phtha ate producers, raw materlals suppllers and phthalate users.
The e Vlronmental effects testlng portlon. Includes the 14
phthaate esters produced 1n large Volume. The program Includes
acute testlng for all 14 phthalates 1n three specles. Addltlonal
acut. and chronlc cast data will be developed for those esters
for lab test data 15 not already avaliable. The Phthalate
Esta Panel has held several dlscusslons mm Mr. Newburgiklnn
of 3-” '5 Test Rules Development Breach.
As a result of these
disc sslons, EPA held a publlc meetlng on September 15, 1991 m
propse acceptance of the Panel's 7oluncary Test Program.
Flna
15
CMA 37777
accetance awalts recelpt of wrltten comments from the publlc and
soma further revlew Hlthln the Agency.
In a response to a Cltlzen's petition ﬁlled under Sectlon 21
of TCA, the EPA Offlce of Pestlcldes and Toxlc Substances coni
duct-d a prlorlty revlew assessment of DEEP whlch could result In
a 4m Actlon bemg taken by the Agency.
The CMA phthalate
Estrs Panel 15 currently worklng Hlth EPA on thls issue.
1m: slate and adlpate esters are also of Interest t
thre
Buraus Within the FDA, the Bureau of Foods. the Bureau of
B10 Ogle: and the Bureau of Medlcal Devlces.
The Bureau of
Blnlogles and the Bureau of Medlcal Devlces are prlmarlly
Inlerested In DEEP use In flexlble plastlcs that come In contact
wlh blood, blood elements or Intravenous solutlons.
Th Bureau of Foods regulates DEHA for use 1n plastlcs Chat
Co a la contact mm foods. and DEEP for use 1n plastlcs that
co tact nonifatty foods. In addltlon, other adlpates, d1i1C7,
Cg alkyly adlpate and dlinialkyl adlpate (made from Cg, Cg, chq
a coh0157 are sanctloned for use In foods. but foods, but the
s.nctlons on these latter compounds were based upon :56 ty of
m BA.
n June 1931, a new Task Group (FDATG7 was formed Within the
’hthalate Ester Panel. to 1nteract mm FDA on Issues relatlng m
adlpates and phthalates. At that time the Bureau of Foods was
preparln a strategy document for submlsslon m the FDA commlsi
sloner w 1ch could have resulted 1n 3 restrlctlon or ban of DEHA
In food ontact applicatlons.
The Phth-late Esters nuns met
Hlth rep esentatlves of the FDA and successfully delay d the
strategy document" The nuns 15 currently preparlng a detalled
revlew o DEHA toxlclty data and developmg a Voluntary testlng
program man FDA could accept 1n lleu of an Interlm regulatlon
or ban 0 DEHA. Since the Phthalate Esters Panel was orlglnally
organlze and funded to address EPA'S concerns, the nuns acmvr
tles Will be funded separately.
The panel faces the challenge of presentlng an 1ndustry coni
census 0 a class of compounds.
Indlvldu-l partlclpatlng com?
panles h-Ve dlverse 1nterest5. but all have a common go 1...:9
minimize the regulatory actlon on these substances by responsy
ble. Vol ntary programs supported broadly.
3.17 polchlorlnated Blphenyls (PCB37
The race t declslon 1n mm v. EPA, NO. 7971590, set Esme
two part of EPA'S regulatlon pertaining to PCBS.
The Con
found uh: EPA dld not present substantlal evldence to support
1:: detemlnatlon m:
17 excl e from regulatlon materlals
contalnl g less Chan 50 ppm PCBS and, b7 deflne the statutorlly
exempts "totally enclosed uses" as 1ntact and nonileaklng. As 3
cm 0377 a
15
a 21
aca
res
of
of
w
act
1::
c
I
result u requescs by EPA and EDP Che aourc declded so stay 1::
mandate or up Go elghteen months. Wlthln thls tune perlod EPA
15 m c-llect Infomatlon and promulgate a supportable regulatlon
on PCBe.
cm stat. mm advlce from the Chemlcal Regulatlons
Advlsor Commlttee (mum and 1nterested company representatlves,
negotlat-d mm EPA and EDP to gather 1nformatlon on the Snippm
1nc1dent-l generatlon issue.
Since C'C's budget could not
support he dataigatherlng efforts, Che Speclal Programs Dlvlslon
was asks to assume responslblllcy for thls project“
The flrs
panel me-tlng was held 1n February, L98L”
The PCB ’anel 15 conductlng two surveys of 1:: member com?
panles: :7 50 ppm 1nc1dental generatlon survey 7 m characterlze
the hat a and scope of the low concentratlons of PCBS; 27 total?
ly encl-ed survey 7 to 1dentlfy the numbers of pieces of elec*
trlcal eulpment whlch contaln PCBS, the Volume of such PCBS, and
thelr c.‘ centratlon levels or ranges. The 1nformatlon obtalned
from the e surveys will be presented to EPA. In August 1931, the
panel 5 nmltted to EPA an analytlcal narratlve dlssertatlon d15*
cussmg he problems and costs assoclated Hlth low level PCB
analysls. The panel 15 currently conductlng an analytlcal roundrobln testlng program whlch Involves both 1ndustry and EPA
laborat-I les.
3.19 Runner Addltlves (RA?
The Rubn-r Addltlves Program Panel was conned 1n March 1980
to spons-r research that would expand the .toxlcologlcal data base
on rubbe chemlcals of 1nterest m partlclpatlng companles.
As an 1 tlal effort, the panel sponsored a serles of 1n
Vltro te ts on purified and commerclal samples of 2*(mozphollaothloy benzothlazolesulfanamlde 124557. Further testlng of ms
15 press tly under conslderatlon, as 15 the need for testlng of
other r nber addltlves.
The pane works 1n close cooperatlon mm both the mu
(Intern.1onal Worklng Group on Rubber Chemlcal Toxmologw and
Che Rubn-r Manufacturers Assoclatlon. All three groups have been
concerns Hlth nltrosamlnes 1n the workplace and the panel 15
conslde ng undertaklng a testlng program on nltrosamlne.
The Sty -ne Program Panel 15 expandlng the styrene mxmoh
ogy dat. base. The panel also represents the 1nterests of 1::
members nefore federal agencles 1n matters relatlng to safety and
health I sues.
A twoiyur chronlc and threeﬂgeneratlon reproductlon study
of styr- a 1n drlnklng water was completed and released t
fedl7
cm 037 9
aral ag- ales. Tha panel also ravlawad a draft flnal raport 05 a
styrene hamacoklnetlc study 1n mica. Tha lattar study 1nd1cmtad spaclaa dlffarancaa Hlth raapact m acuta atyrana toxlclty
1n rats .nd mica. Tha panal prasantly la aaaaaalng bow thaaa
dlffara 53 “15:5 to man bafora procaadlng further Hlth a
raaaare program.
Tha pan. lncorporatad a Ragulatory Task Group t addrass
EPA'S p opoaad ragulatlona (NESHAP7 for benzene amlsslons from
achyl b. zana/styrana plants commants Nara submlt tad to EPA on
3.20 n anlum Dloxlda (TEN
In 1977, Du Pont Inltlated a ravlaw of tha lltaratura on
tltanlu dloxlda toxlclty and concluded that furthar Infomatlon
was naaad to answer posslble questlons whlch mlght be dlrected
at tlta lum dloxlde. The unpact of the Toxlc Substances Control
Act als- ralsed concern as to tha adequacy of exlstlng
1nforma lon.
Tha pan-l has tentatlvely concluded that a hlstorlcal
mortall y study 15 not justlfled at thls tune.
The pan-l plans
to tam nate program actlvltles If no new evldence 5 human
health -ffects 15 reported as a result of the two year 1nhalatlon
studles .emg conducted by Du Pont.
3.21 Tr chloroethylene (TCE7
The Trl-hloroethylene Program Panal was formed on May 12,
1975 1n response to an MCI Memorandumiof Alert.
Tha pan-l's
prlmary concern was a longiterm 1nhalatlon study. A contract was
Signed n 1975 mm Industrlal B107TEST Laboratorles mm to
conduct such a study. The testlng perfomed by IBT resulted 1n 3
ntmber .5 grave 1nadequac1es and a flnal report was not lssued.
Therefoe. the CMA TCE Audlt Task Group prepared an audlt r port.
EPA'S C.ncer Assessment Group has asked the panel to provlde
Valldat on of chamber concentratlons for the flrst 12 to 15
months .5 the IBT study.
The pan-l 15 monltorlng the progress of the MCI bloassay on
TCE mum Involves several stralns of mice and rats.
Althoug the panel contemplated an epldemlologlcal study,
50cm d-termlned that a study populatlon for an epidemiologlc
Investl-atlon would be too small to yleld statlstlcally Slgn1f*
lean: r-sults. Therefore. such a study was not conducted.
3.22 V1 yl Chlorlde way
Since 1-72, the Program Panel has supported actlvltles
related to the accumulatlon and assessment of health and safety
data of Vinyl chlorlde monomer.
19
cm 037 an
After 5 ndlng several annual studles, the eaphasls on
researc shlfted from toxlcologlcal 1nvest1gatlons m the early
dlagnos s and cllnlcal management of vmyl chlorlde*related
injurle'.
The panl 15 also fundlng an update of 3 Vinyl
chlorld- epldemlology study of 10,000 workers.
The pan-l has malntalned a close liaison mm SH and
several Europeanibased companles.
The pre-ent 1nterest 1n
polyvm 1 chlorlde mm dust control 11mm: 1n the UK 15 bemg
closely followed. Several months ago 95% requested 1nformatlon
on PVC nust; however. no notlce has been publlshed or other
actlon uaken.
3.23 v1 ylldene Chlorlde (way
The Vln lldene Chlorlde Program Panel was formed 1n May 15,
1974 m 1nvest1gate the potentlal toxlcologlc effects and pharmai
coklnet as of Inhaled and lngested vuc 1n laboratory annuals.
Dow Che leal. whlch was plannlng research on VD: toxlcology,
agreed 0 convert 1:: program 1nto an 1ndustryiw1de effort.
The
Iwoiyea Inhalatlon Toxlclty and Oncogenlclty Study of Vlnylldene
Chlorld- 1n Rats 15 5:11 1n progress.
The Wor Practlces Task Group of the panel prepared a Health
and Saf-ty Work Practlces Guldellne for Vlnylldene Chlorlde m
mmms expodufe m vuv.
me uula-llaes Hats 5 An a co the
Dlrecto of NIDSH and the Project Manager, for Crlterla Documents
at SR1. They recelved no other dlstrlbutlon.
The panl 15 preparlng to respond to a Health Rlsk Assess*
men: Cr terla document on VD: under preparatlon by the EPA ark
terla ad Health Assessment Group. OSHA does not have a standard
for we and EPA 15 unllkely m requlre any further toxlclty
testlng on VD: under TSCA Sectlon 4.
The pha acoklnetlcs and metabollsm research show a specles
sensltl 1ty of Mouse>Rat>Man.
The tot.l data bank 1nd1cates
oncogea clty 15 not observed wlthout recurrent tlssue damage and
wlthout a cytotoxlc dose; a tumorigenlc response 1n man would be
an 1mprbable event.
3.24 ms Dlalkyl Dlthlophosphates (zuwy
The zm: Program Panel was chartered 1n November 1980 to
conduct research on thls class of 011 addltlves.
A5 a 51 st
step, gnadal toxlclty studles of three zDDP compounds were
1n1tlatd 1n 1mmature and mature rats and rabblts.
valous specles dlfferences were observed between rabblts
and rat mm respect to zDDP toxlclty. Consequently, the panel
propose to conduct a comparatlve 1n Vlvo phamacoklnetlc study
19
cm 037 91
la the at. rabbis, and man.
A (loss? esponse study 15 also
propoaa co dataralna a noiaifact level la raes and rabbles.
Ia nu.- eastlng of ZDDPS by Indlvldual companlas has shown
that so a manbars of aha class hava genocoxlc pocanclal.
The
Program Panal 15 coasldarlng conductlng mutagenlclty/carclnoganlcley assays eo further 355555 thls potentlal.
cm
20
am 03792
TABLE 1
1310mm L AND ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIAL pmamms BUDGET SUMMARY"
woman
Acrylon trlle
RESEARC- AND
ADVOCAC COMMITMENT
723,494
ADMINIS 'ATIVE
EXPENSE-
79,172
5907, 65.
309,500
17,195
325,595
Arsenlc
10, nun
9,500
19, am
Ben2ene
3,049.54
112,252
3,150,9‘5
21, 944
29,457
51,411
Chlorobnzenes
370,722
37, 952
403,574
Eplchlo ohydrln
315,032
27,432
342,454
15, 059
15, 059
10, 039
43, 032
53, 071
293,100
54,449
352,549
15,519
15,519
Glycol thers
313,000
15,232
329,232
Ketones
2a, 977
237,957
Phosgen-
217,512
95,729
303,240
Phthala e Esters
195,595
132,529
319,213
Polychl-rlnated Blphenyls
100,434
19, 959
119,303
30,725
17,730
49,455
703,219
55,545
774,753
30,725
23, 959
54,594
490,505
99,739
590,244
1,325,552
119,701
1,445,253
Vinyll-ne Chlorlde
729,492
57,440
795,922
21m; D1.lkyl
Dlthlo osphatas
79, 957
12,207
92, 054
9,524,991
1,119,993
10, 543, 994
9,215.5 0
559,753
9,735,403
$19,741,541
$20,430,237
Allyl Ilorlde
Butylatad
Hydrox oluene
Epoxy 'eslns
Ethyle e mbmmlde
Ethyle e chhlorlde
Ethyle e Dxlde
Rubber ddltlves
Styren-
Tltanl Dloxlde
Trlchl-roethylene
mel Ihlorlde
subtot.l
Fluo r-carbons
total
4 Fluo ocarbons program from start thru May 30, 1931.
to Sep ember 25, 1991.
5
TOTAL
All 0: 3r programs start to
cm 03 793
Mahara-
Flgure 1 7 Bloated leal am Rawlroaaaatal Speclal Fro«rta« plvlaloo
cm 03 794
BIOMEDICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL
swam woman: ADVISORY COMMITTEE 15mm
Hie G.1tbee Hill:
advlse the Executlve Ccnmlttee on the acceptance of new programs, ensure that all speclal pracjram
are Go ducted 1n 3 Manner conslstent mm cm pollcy and mm the Speclal Program Guldellnes; and, revlew and make
reccmn-ndatlone on all advocacy programs on 1nd1v1dual chemlcal 157 requested by a program panel or staff.
TERM E DING MAY 31, 1992
Borgiw.mex Chemlcal Cozporatlon, Internatlonal Center, ParkersLury, w 25101
Monsan-o Company, EDD North Llndbergh Boulevard, St. Louls, MD
Shell lhemlcal Ccnpanyl, p. 0. Box 2453, Houston. TX
Chalrm.n"
CIBAiGHIGY Cozporatlon, Ardsley, Ny
53155
77001
10502
77001
TERM E DING MAY 31, 1992
The BFoodrlch Ccmpaly, 6100 Oak Tree Boulevard, Cleveland, ca
Essex lhemlcal Cozporatlon, 1401 Broad Street, Cllfton, NJ D7015
Stauffr Chemlcal Coopany, Westport, CT
ma Ch-mlcal Group, 421 East Hawley Street, Mundelem, IL 50050
Ethyl lorporatlon, 451 Florlda Avenue, Baton Rouge, LA
05990
70901
A ppenlx A
a
44131
TERM E DING MAY 31, 1994
Noble
53134
19477
19997
John J Zlmmeman...ARCD Chemlcal Company, 3901 West Chester Pike, Newtown Square, PA
Staff 'xecutlve:
*Throu-h Bay 31, 1992
Hasmuk c. Shah
53119
19073
LIST 0- SPECIAL pmamms
NUMBER
PRDGR NAME
PRDGR TYPE
Acrylo ltrlle
Researh
na/zn/ 4
Allyl Ihlorlde
Researh
08/19/ 5
Arsenl
Researh and Advocacy
Dl/29/. 1
Benzen
Researh and Advocacy
n2/ne/ 7
Eu ty Atecjhay droxyto 1 uene
Researh and Advocacy
09/19/ 7
START IATE
Chloroenzenes
Researh
12/15/ 4
Eplchlmrohydrln
Researh
08/19/ 5
Epoxy 'eslns
Ethyle e leroalde
Researh
03/22/ 9
Ethyle e chhlorlde
Resear h
12/17/ 4
Ethylee Dxlde
Resear h and Afrocacy
04/15/1
Fluoro arbons
Resear h and Advocacy
04/09/3
Glycol Ether:
Resear h and Advocacy
na/za/n
Ketone
Resear h and Advocacy
01/23/0
Phosge e
Phthal-te Esters
Polych orlnated Blphenols
Rubber Addltlves
Resear h and Advocacy
DB/lD/ 9
Styren
Resear h and Advocacy
10/24/ 4
Tltanl n Dloxlde
Resear h
na/m/ 7
Trlchl-roethylene
Resea h
05/12/ 5
mel hlorlde
Vlnyllene Chlorlde
21m; - alkyl
Dlthl-nosphates
Resea h
Resea ch and Advocacy
Advoc.cy
Reseach and Advocacy
Reseach
03/31 en
01/19 77
05/19 72
02/24 72
02/11 91
11/15 71
05/15 74
Appenlx
B
cm 0 7797
Reseach and Advocacy
CDMPL'TIDN mm:
Reseach and Advocacy
10/02 en
Appenlx c
(:0va ms PARTICIPATING m SPECIAL pnocmms
ABBDT LABS
Ethyl-neoxlde
AIR PDDUCTS
mel Chlorlde
szo amm EV
Fluor-carbons
ALLmu cowonnmu
fluorucarbons, Ketones, Phthalate Esters, Phosgene
Arsen c
AMERI N CYANAMID
Acrylnnltrlle, Phthalate Esters, Rubber Addltlves
AMERI N HDECHST
Styre e
AMDCD
Benze e, Styrene, 21m; Dlalkyl Dlthlophosphates
ANACD IA comma COMPANY
Arsen c
ARCD HEMICAL
ftenzne, Phthalate Esters, Polychlorlnated Blphenyls
ARCD/ -oLYMERs
Styre e
ASAHI Dow LIMITED
Vlnyldene Chlorlde
ASAHI GLASS (10., LTD.
Fluor-carbons, Vlnylldene Chlorlde
ASARCI ma.
Arsenc
ASHLA - CHEMICAL
Benze e
ASSOCIATED DCTEL company
Ethyl-ne mbmmde
cm 037799
AUS 'LIAN memm CHEMICALS PARTY. LTD.
Fluo -carbons
BASF YANADDTTS
Ethylene chhlorlde, Ethylene Dxlde, Phosgene, Phthalate Esters.
BECTI urcxmsou
Ethy ens Dxlde
BETH mm STEEL
Benzne
BDRD.N CHEMICAL
Ethy ens chhlorlde, Phthalate Esters, Vlnyl Chlorlde
BDRG WARNER CHEMICALS
Acry onltrlle, Styrene
BRIS DL LABS
Ethy ens Dxlde
Trlc loroethylene
CEL ESE PLASTICS SPECIALTIES co.
Epox Reslns, Ethylene Dxlde
CERT mimu
Vln | Chlorlde
CHE: BROWSE Pawns
Eth lens dxlde
CHE "ON
Pht slate Esters, 21m; Dlalkyl Dlthlophosphates
crsicmcy
Epo y Reslns
CoNco CHEMICALS
Eth lens chhlorldE. Ethylene Dxlde, Phthalate Esters, Vlnyl
Chlrlde
cosEN OIL
Benene, Styrene
c- CENT mmmcmmus Co
fc-hylene Dxlde
DA KIN Kosyo co. LTD.
Fl orocarbons
c A 037799
|m- muvsmgs
Btylated Hydroxytoluene
mmom: SHAMROCK
Arsenlc, Ethylne chhlorlde, Polychlorlnated Blphenyls, Phthalate
Esters, Trlchl-roethylene, mel Chlorlde
Dow CHEMICAL
Acrylonltrlle, Allyl Chlorlde, Benzene, Chlorobenzenes, Epoxy Reslns,
Ethylene mbm 1de, Ethylene chhlorlde, Ethylene Dxlde, Glycol
Ethers. Ketone, Styrene, Trlchloroethylene, Vlnyl Chlorlde,
Vlnylldene Chl-rlde
Acrylonltrlle, Benzene, Ethylene chhlorlde, Fluorocarbons,
Phosgene, Phth-late Esters, Polychlorlnated Blphenyls, Tltanlum
Dloxlde, Vlnyldene Chlorlde
nu FONT CANADA INC.
Fluorocarbons
ELCD CDRPDRATIIN
21m; Dlalkyl u thlophosphates
EL PASD wow: 5 company
Styrene
EASTMAN KODAK
Polychlorlnate Blphenyls
ESSEX CHEMICAL mAcom
Fluorocarbons
ETHYL coupmmn 0N
Allyl Chlorlde Ethylene mbmmde, Ethylene chhlorlde, Phthalate
Esters, Trlchl-roethylene, mel Chlorlde, 21m; Dlalkyl
Dlthlophosphat-s
EXXON
BenzenE, Keto -s, Polychlorlnated Blphenyls, Phthalate Esters, Vlnyl
Chlorlde. 2m Dlalkyl Dlthlophosphates
mxmnc cox?
Ethylene Dxlde
GENERAL ELECT'I c
Phosgene, Pht .late Esters, Polychlorlnated Blphenyls
GENERAL TIRE & RUBBER
Phthalate Est- s, mel Chlorlde
cm 037790
I
BFGDDDRICH
Allyl Chlorld-, Ethylene chhlorlde, Rubber Addltlves, Vinyl
Chlorlde. Vln 1dene Chlorlde
GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER
Rubber Addltl as, mel Chlorlde
mel Chlorldn Vlnylldene Chlorlde
GREAT AMERICA CHEMICAL
mel Chlorld.
GREAT LAKES
Ethylenenlbro 1de
GULF CHEMICAL co.
Acrylonltrlle, Benzene, Ethylene chhlorlde, Styrene, mel Chlorlde
GULF & WESTER
Tltanlum mox de
HALCDN
Ethylene Dxld-
HDECHST AG/AMHRICAN HDECHST
Fluorocarbons
aoomn CHEMICL
Polychlorlnat-d Blphenyls, Trlchloroethylene, mel Chlorlde
1:1 AMERICAS
Ethylene Inch orlde, Glycol Ethers, Vlnyl Chlorlde
IMPERIAL CHEMCAL INDUSTRIES PLC
Fluorocarbons. Trlchloroethylene
mmom communou
fhthalate Estrs
15c CHEMICALS LTD
fluorocarbon:
JAPAN FLow GA ASSOC.
Fluorocarbons
JOHNSON & Joa sou
Ethylene Dxld-
cm 037791
KAISER ALUMIN AND CHEMICAL coup
Fluorcarbons. Polychlorlnated Blphenyls
KALI camm Al
Fluorocarbons
KENDALL Co
Ethylene Dxld
KEYSDIPCENTU'R
mel Chlorld
KDPPERS CoMPA-Iy
Arsenlc, Benzne, Butylated Hydroxytoluene, Phthalate Esters
mmmm CHEMICL INDUSTRY
Vlnylldene Ch orlde
LUBRI2QL
21m; Dlalkyl 1thlophosphates
MALLINCKRDDT NC
Ethylene Dxld
mam BIDTRDL
Ethylene Dxld
MITSDI FLDDRDHEMICALS LTD
fluorocarbon:
MDBAY CHEMICA
fhosgene, Ruber Addltlves
MOBIL OIL CDRDRATIDN
Benzene. Phth.late Esters
MDNSANTD comp y
Acrylonltrlle Benzene, Chlorobenzenes, Ketones, Polychlorlnated
Blphenyls, Ph halate Esters, Rubber Addltlves, Styrene, mel
Chlorlde. Vln lldene Chlorlde
MONTEDISDN 51>
Fluorocarbons Phosgene
MDNTRDSE CHEMCAL Cox? DE CA
Chlorobenzene
MORTON CHEMICL
Vlnylldene Chlorlde
cm 037792
NALCD CHEMICA COMPANY
Ethylene Dxld-
NL muvsmgs
Tltanlum moxde
QLIN CORPORATION
Glycol Ethers. Polychlorlnated Blphenyls, Phosgene, Vlnylldene
Chlorlde
DSMDSE woou p- SERVING company
Arsenlc
PANTASDTS
Phthalate Est-rs
PENNWALT
Arsenlc, Flu- ocarbons. Rubber Addltlves
PHILLIPS PE 'ILEUM company
Benzene
PPG INDUSTRIES
Chlorobenzenes. Ethylene leroralde, Ethylene chhlorlde, Ethylene
Dxlde. Glycol Ethers, Polychlorlnated Blphenyls, Phosgene,
Trlchloroeth lens. Vlnyl Chlorlde, Vlnylldene Chlorlde
PDLYSAR LIMI u
Benzene
pnouums car IQU‘ES ucnm KUHLMANN
Fluorocarbon
REICHHDLD camrcALs
Epoxy Reslns
RDHM & HAAS
Vlnylldene u chlorlde
RUEICDN
Phosgene
SALSBU‘RY LAB
Arsenlc
5cm CORPORATION
Tltanlum mo 1de
SHELL CHEM]: L COMPANY
Allyl Chlorle, Benzene, Butylated Hydroxytoluene, Epoxy Reslns,
Ethylene Inc lorlde, Ethylene Dxlde, Glycol Ethers, Ketones,
Phthalate Esuers, mel Chlorlde, Styrene, 21m; Dlalkyl
Dlthlophosph.tes,
samwm WILLAMS
Butylated Hyroxytoluene
cm 037793
1
saERwooD MEDCAL
Ethylene Dxl-e
530sz DENKD K
Fluorocarbon-
STANDARD CHLRIN‘E CHEMICAL Co
Chlorobenzen 5
STANDARD OIL warm
Acrylonltrll-, Benzene
STANGE comp y
Ethylene mme
smupmn CHE ICAL
Ethylene chlorlde, Phosgene, Phthalate Esters, Polychlorlnated
Blphenyls, v nyl Chlorlde
STSPEN CHEMIAL
Phthalate Es ers
sun PETRDLE . pnmchs
Styrene
SUNSHINE MIN as CD'
Arsenlc
TECKNDR’APEX
Phthalate Ea ers
TENNESSEE EA-TMAN
Acrylonltrll, Glycol Ethers, Ketones, Phthalate Esters, Vlnyllden
Chlorlde
TENN'ECD cam CALS
mel Chlorle
TEXACD ma
BenzenE, Eth lens Dxlde. Glycol Ethers, 21m; Dlalkyl Dlthlophosphates,
menm CANA, LTD
tltanlum mo 1de '-
TOMS RIVER
Phosgene
TRAV'ENDL LAB-
Ethylene Dxle
mum CARBID
SenzenE, Eth lens chhlorldE. Ethylene Dxlde, Glycol Ethers, Ketones,
rm CVlDrlna ed BlPhen7ls' Phosgene, Phthalat Esters, Styren , Vlnyl
cm 037794
mum OIL 0F CA
Vlnylldene c lorlde
UNIRDYAL. m .
Acrylonltrll-, Butylated Hydroxytoluene, Rubber Addltlves, Vlnyl
Chlorlde
U55 CHEMICA .
BenzenE, 1m: slate Esters, Styrene
umoau comp y
Phosgene
VULCAN MATE'IALS
Ethylene m lorlde, Polychlorlnated Blphenyls
erco CHEMIILS
Phthalate E ers
WARREN cam- AL (:0
Ethylene Ox de
9/25/91
cm nz77~9a
EXHIBIT 3
TECHNICAL u I'ECTDR'S REPORT
Since the 1.5: Board of Dlrectors' meetlng, the Technk
cal Dlrecto made presentatlons at the followlng conferences:
Natlonal So 1d Waste Management Assoclatlon
ence on Was-e Technology (Boston, Mm,
Degree of H.13rd"
Management .5 Uncontrolled Hazardous Waste Sltes
(Washlngton, nay.
Plenary Lec-ure.
Toplc:
Degree
of Hazard.
She partlclated In medla
Detrolt, Bo-ton and Provldence.
tours
1n
San
Conferi
Toplc:
Franclsco,
The Technlc.l Dlrector Is worklng actlvely mm the Con*
servatlon Fundatlon to develop a hazardous waste 51mm; book?
let for use In local Communltles.
She also pa tlclpated as a
member on t-e Coast Guard's Chemlcal Transportatlon Advlsory
Commlttee were an Internatlonal Superfund was dlscussed.
(See
Envlronment 1 Programs.)
The major a tlvltles of the Technlcal Department *outslde of those detalled In the followlng sectlons centered
on preparat on for the Semlannual Meetlng and the report for
the Technlc-l Revlew Commlttee.
The Revlew 111 be on November
cammmc
The next ca MTREC workshop Is scheduled for Loulsvllle
on November 19719.
The Dlrecto and selected Advlsors are
worklng Hit Texas AAM to reflne thelr presentatlon.
They're
worklng to educe to a minimum the outslde resources requlred.
Th1: progra Hill contlnue through the three remalnlng
development.l workshops.
There are nut! 19 companles, mm 24 statlons, on the
"hard copy" network.
Approxlmatey onsithlrd of the total
trafflc gas through thls system.
The cammm Advlsors met October 29729 to dlscuss a
number of m-tters, 1nclud1ng reportlng by carrlers, and
emergency r-sponse outslde of the Unlted States.
cm 037795
1
3
A member suvey Indlcates that for the 124mm] perlod
endlng June 30, 1931, CMA members have unproved energy
efflclency .y 23.4%, compared mm 1972.
ENGINEERING
cm revlewe and commented on Elva standards of substani
tlal Intere t to the chemlcal Industry.
They were . oposed for
adoptlon as Amerlcan Natlonal Standards by Underwrlters Labor?
torles mm and Manufacturers Standardlzatlon Soclety.
CMA'S
major conc-rn contlnues m be adequate safety at reasonable
cost.
of those r-Vlewed, cm reafflrmed 1:5 negatlve Vote on
three UL p oposals because of Inadequate Hire beadlng space,
whlch woul result In excesslve Installatlon and malntenance
costs.
The Commlt as Is plannlng a forum on the causes and
effects of power outages, and cures for them, Hlth a Vlew
towards fomulatlng remedlal actlon.
The Commlt-ee Is preparlng and selectlng a speaker for
the progr. for the thlrd Process Computer Users Forum to be
held In Ma 1932.
Th1: forum will bulld upon what was learned
last t1me.bout dlstrlbuted computer control.
1: Hill al-o
explore ma agerlal conslderatlons Includlng use of management
Informatlo systems and sclentlflc computatlons, and full
utlllzatlo of Installed systems.
CHEMICAL "GULATIDNS
am: has b-en meetlng mm EPA In a serles of dlscusslons
on CMA'S p titlon requestlng exemptlons from PMN requlrements
for lowivo ume chemlcals, 51te*llm1ted IntemedlateS. and
certaln po ymers.
The meetlns have focused on Issues ralsed
by EPA and data requlrements that the Agency belleves 1: needs
prior to p oposed rulemaklng.
Examples Iclude deflnltlon of a
quallfled xpert, crlterla for polymer exemptlons and justify
catlon for a 25,000 pound cutioff for lowivolume exemptlons,
among othe s.
cm: Intenws to complete 1:: dlscusslons mm
EPA by the end of 1931, and looks for EPA proposed rules durlng
the flrst uarter of 1932.
cm staff repared an economlc analysls supportlng our
25,000 pou d cutioff for lowivolume PMN exemptlons.
PMNassocla ed costs were shown to adversely Impact the market?
ablllty of new chemlcals, whlch, 1n turn, reduces the
1nnovat1ve capablllty of the chemlcal Industry.
cm: repreentatlves and cm staff met Hlth Don Clay,
Dlrector o the Offlce of Toxlc Substances (DTS7 m dlscuss
major reguatory Issues under, TSCA.
Mr. Clay h.s asslgned
cm 037799
4
three of 5 staff to develop comprehenslve EPA programs for
reportlng, PMNS, and contract management for DTS actlvltles.
PMN exemptons Will be part of EPA'S prlorlty programs, whlch
gives us . surance that proposed PMN exemptlon rules will be
ready soo .
Staff upd. ed the portlon of CMA'S submlsslon to the Vice
Presldent' Task Force on Regulatory Rellef deallng Hlth TSCArelated Issues.
The updat- detalled the progress EPA has made
In addreslng the key Issues hlghllghted In the orlglnal
report.
cm: held a twoiday plannlng meetlng on October 2172 to
dlscuss h-w the current objectlve and key strategles of each
task grou are helplng to achleve the overall goals of CMA and
to promot- effectlve regulatlons under TSCA.
cm: plan to hold an Infomatlon Meetlng for cm members
on Decemb-r 3.
Dr. John odhunter 1mm Is the Invlted guest
speaker; a will speak on the Agency's plans for Implementlng
TSCA.
Testlng
Comments .re bemg prepared on EPA test rules proposed
June 5, a d on 0mm proposed test guldellnes.
The task roup
Is also wrklng on a strategy for gettlng closure on Sectlon 4
Test Stanards and related lssues.
Reportlng
Plans are belng made to develop a strategy for Implementi
mg Sectln a of TSCA In a more Integrated manner.
The task
group loo 5 forward to Interactlng Hlth EPA In thls effort.
csIN
The major effort of the task group Is plannlng a workshop
for early 1992 on the subject of data quallty.
HAZARDS CwMMUNICATIDNS SPECIAL COMMITTEE
cm subm ted a draft hazards communlcatlons proposal to
OSHA on J ly 13, 1931.
The OSHA ork Group has revlewed CMA'S
proposal .nd has allegedly Incorporated most of Industry's
posltlons In Its own draft.
As of Dct-ber 3, the OSHA draft
had not hen Signed by Secretary Donovan.
A publlca lon date
15, there ore. unknown.
The cm d aft proposal focuses on Materlal Safety Data
Sheets. w-rker training and educatlon programs, and workplace
hazards c-mmunlcatlons.
1: 15 antclpated that these same
am 03779.
1
5
component will be 1ncorporated 1nto the OSHA rule, but the
flnal st. dard will most llkely be a more complex proposal than
that developed by cm.
occwnr- AL SAFETY AND HEALTH
Access :- Records
OSHA Sta ed parts of the rule on access to employee
records 0 conslder confldentlallty of trade secrets.
cm
recommened that negotlatlons mm employee representatives,
not regu atlons, should detemlne the condltlons for allowlng
access :- records mm trade secrets.
Moreover. cm contlnues
to Inter ene In the AFL/CID legal actlon to prevent further
broadenl g of access to employee records.
Hearlng lonservatlon
In some ts to OSHA, cm recommended that stays be con*
tlnued o the amendment to the occupatlonal nolse standard.
cm made addltlonal suggestlons on remalnlng parts of the
Standard to permlt contlnued use of hearlng conservatlon
programs whlch have been so successful In.the chemlcal
Industry
I
Informlnv Prlmary Care Physlclans About Dccupatlonal
Medlclne
cm caisonsored a pioneering course In cooperatlon Hlth
the Amer can Dccupatlonal Medlcal Assoclatlon, to Inform
prlmary are physlclans and other health professlonals about
occupatl-nal medlclne.
Attendan e was good and the
presents lons were well recelved.
Reproduc 1Ve Hazards
Reproduc 1Ve hazards In the workplace remaln a major
chemlal ndustry concern.
In Its c-mments on the Interagency
Regulato y Liaison Group's Rlsk Assessment Work Plan for
control .5 reproductlve hazards, cm dlscussed the complexlty
and lac of Informatlon on thls subject.
Targetl .
cm end-I sad OSHA proposals for targetlng Safety Inspec*
tlons a - made suggestlons for Improvement.
These I luded the
use of - HA recordable Injurles and selfireportlng of these
data to he Agency.
053: m 1 contlnue to work Hlth the Agency
on thls ‘ atter.
pmsmc ~st< ANALYSIS SPECIAL COMMITTEE
muse dveloped a proposed* pollcy for regulatory Impact
analysl- for health, safety and environmental chemlcal regui
I
am 037.00
1
a
latlons
The proosed pollcy addresses all pertlnent aspects
of regu story Impact analysls of whlch publlc rlsk analysls Is
one com.cnent.
A cm p-sltlon on regulatory Impact analysls Is
Imports t because of the potentlal Impact of Executlve Order
12291.
on Septmber 29, CMA'S Board of Dlrectors approved the
Publlc "lsk Analysls Speclal Commlttee's proposed pollcy on
regulat-ry Impact analysls.
At the .emlannual Meetlng In November, am will recommend
to 1:5 xecutlve Commlttee and Board of Dlrectors that muse
sunset -nd a new Commlttee be conned.
Th1: ne commlttEE, the
Regulat-ry Impact Speclal Commlttee mrscy, Will have a charter
and obj-ctlves more In llne mm the cm pollcy on regulatory
Impact.naly515.
Among I 5 several tasks, RISC Hill deflne and
develo approprlate methodologles for use In regulatory Impact
analys s by cm.
ENVIRD MENTAL PROGRAMS
Regula ory Refom
cm 5e t out a letter to cm Commlttee chalmen. Vlce
chalrmn. task group leaders and staff executlves requestlng
thelr .sslstance In provldlng Vice Presldent Bush Hlth an
Interl progress report on the accompllshments and remalnlng
tasks 5 the Admlnlstratlon's regulatory rellef program.
Clean 1r Act
Compre enslve wrltten testlmony 15 belng prepared for sub?
mlttal m Congressman Waxman's Subcomlttee on Health and the
envlroment concernlng amendment of the Clean Alr Act.
The
mater1.ls submltted will cover all of CMA'S posltlons on
amendl g the Clean Alr Act.
A.CMA elegatlon partlclpated In a meetlng at EPAiDurham
to dis us: the Agency's plans for regulatlon under Sectlon 112
of the Clean Alr Act.
on she leals yet to be llsted, EPA plans
Sclenc- Advlsory Board revlew of the 115mm; (several Will be
revle -d In early 19927, then several option papers will be
avall.-le for the Administrator to revlew.
The r-ulatory
optlo 5 Include:
regul.te under Sectlon 111m. 115:
Immed ately under Sectlon 112, proceed toward 115mm; and
regul.t1ng under Sectlon 112.
EPA semed wllllng m conslder
chang-s In the Act Includlng compresslng 115mm; and standard
settlng, use of ...unreasonable rlsk" and regulatlng by source
categurles.
Super und
Mamba s of the Superfund Task Group met mm EPA
repreentatlves to dlscuss EPA'S new concept on the "how clean
cm 0.7901
7
Is clanl4 Issue. EPA has suggested that practlcable englneer"
Ing s-lutlons be used and they would llke to develop a matrlx
to be used as a guldance document.
cm I developmg recomi
mend.1ons whlch Will be submltted to EPA. The meetlng repre*
sent-d Significant progress In developlng a workable approach
for he "how clean Is clean" Issue.
Membrs of CMA Envlronmental. Dlstrlbutlon. and Legal
stat met Hlth representatlves of the v.5. Coast Guard to
disc 55 an mas draft Artlcles for a Conventlon on Liability
and ompensatlon In Connectlon Hlth the Carrlage of Noxlous and
8515 dons Substances by Sea.
Our evlew of thls draft
Indl ates that 1: appears to be an Internatlonal Superfund mm
all he unacceptable provlslons we were able to minimize last
yea . We dlscussed the posltlon157 to be espoused by the v.5.
Del-atlon (l.e., the Coast Guard).
Spe.k1ng Engagements
Joe ayhew attended the Oak Rldge Natlonal Laboratory
Llf- Sclences Symposmm In Gatlinburg, Tennessee on October
575 He gave a presentatlon on "The Effect of the Resource
Con ervatlon and Recovery Act on Hazardous Waste Treatment and
Dlsosal Practlces In the Chemlcal Industry."
J. arvey conducted a medla tour In Central Florlda
Dct-ber 2572B, 1931. She concentrated her remarks prlmarlly on
the toplc of hazardous wastes.
BI- IDICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL woman:
Al y! Chlorlde
Th Ally! Chlorlde Program Panel has recently accepted the
am: flnal report by Dow Chemlcal of the phamacoklnetlc and
me abollc propertles of ally! chlorlde. The panel Is currently
a itlng the completlon of a Bniday Inhalatlon study.
Asemc
CH and the Natlonal Bureau of Standards are sponsorlng an
A senlc Symposlum to be held In Galthersburg, m: on November
75, 1931. The symposlum Hill provlde a means whereby Industry
.nd government agencles may reach an understandlng for costeffectlve regulatlon of arsenlc as a hazardous materlal through
knowledg- of productlon and use patterns, toxlcologlc propel”
tles. an- the presence of arsenlc In the envlronment.
The Arse 1:: Program Panel sponsored a llterature revlew of
"he suspcted carclnogenlc effects of arsenlc Hlth Dr. HardlngBarlow.
am 03792
a
Butylate- Hydroxytoluene (arm
The joln- FAD/WHD Expert Commlttee on Food Addltlves re*
cently e tended the temporary average dally Intake (mm for
BET, pen-lng recelpt of addltlonal testlng data.
Chlorobe zenes
EPA and -he chlorobenzenes producers have agreed on a
declslon tree approach to the testlng of chlorobenzenes In the
Voluntar Industry test program. The Toxlcology Research Group
has reco mended that Dr. Gary Wllllams of the Amerlcan Health
Foundatl-n perform the cell transfomatlon assays and EPA Is In
agreemen- mm thls recommendatlon. Requests for proposals to
conduct . twoigeneratlon reproductlon study on monochloroi
benzene are sent to Elva contract laboratorles.
Ethylene leromlde (Ems)
The Intenatlonal Brotherhood of Teamsters urged In a
Septembe 2, 1931. petition that the Dccupatlonal Safety and
Health A-mlnlstratlon (OSHA) Issue an emergency temporary
standard (msy reduclng the exposure 11m: for the fumlgant
EDB. The Teamsters' petition clalms that "three major studles"
show EDB m be a potent carclnogen at levels far below those
allowed nder the present OSHA standard.
OSHA has been asked
to Hrlte an ms. OSHA has no definitive plan of actlon untll
1: has otalned more data.
Informs: on from the panel will be
conslder-d. Dr. L. Vernon Whlte of Great Lakes Chemlcal and
Mr. Rage Mangham of Ethyl Corporatlon will attend an OSHA
meetlng n EDB on October 13 as Industry representatlves.
Ethylene chhlorlde
The Ethy ens chhlorlde Program Panel Is endeavorlng m
clarlfy -everal questlons relatlng m the flnal report of the
chronlc nhalatlon study conducted for the panel by Drs.
Maltonl .nd Spreaflco.
Ethylene Dxlde
Membersh p of the newly conned Ethylene Dxlde Industry
Councll ncludes 29 companles and assoclatlons. The Sclentlflc
and Regu story Commlttees have conned several task forces that
are In t a process of developmg programs.
Budgets .nd
proposal- are m be submltted m the Ear: Executlve Commlttee
by Nova er 1.
on septa her 29, OSHA denled a petition of the the Publlc
Cltlzen ealth Research Group and the Amerlcan Federatlon of
Stats. Cunty and Munlclpal Employees to Issue an emergency
temporar standard. Also OSHA stated that an advance notlce of
proposed rulemaklng (ANPR) woulid be Issued.
Included In the
cm 037913
9
denlal ms 3 statement that regulatlon of sterllant and
pestlcld- end users of ethylene oxlde would be under EPA'S
jurlsdlclon.
1: was a pasted that the Health Research Group would ﬁlls
a motlon for 1njunct1ve rellef In the DC Dlstrlct Court;
however. thls has not occurred.
on Octobr 1, the Group dld
ﬁlls a d scovery request Hlth OSHA for documents used as a
basls fo the denlal.
Fluorocabons
All 19 p.rt1c1pat1ng companles have commltted to the 1m
creased udget of 51.9 million for calendar year 1932.
There
Is no In leatlon that the Industry contrlbutlon to the resolui
tlon of ﬁfe Valldlty of the Ozone Depletlon Theory Hill
dlmlnlsh In the near future.
Four CMA representatlves attended the mmp Coordlnatlng
Commltte- on the Ozone Layer at Copenhagen, Denmark, on October
Two task forces and the Fluorocarbon Program Panel 117mm
met In Rmme, Italy the week of October 19, 1931.
A number of
Visiting sclentlsts partlclpated 1n presentatlons and panel
dlscusslmns on atmospherlc measurements technlques and results
and the -tatus of atmospherlc modellng.
J
Due to b dget dlfflcultles, NASA cannot commlt, at thls
time, to fund onsihalf the atmospherlc llfetlme experlment
(ALE) fo the next year (total cost approxlmately 5400,0007.
Thereforn FPP Hill reallocate authorlzed funds to support the
whole prmgram for the 51x months startlng 11/1/91. 71: Is
essentla that the Elva ALE statlons contlnue measurements
after ex stlng contracts explre 10/31/91.
am will testlfy on the state of the sclence before the
House 5 commlttee on Health and the Envlronment In early
November
Glycol Ehers
The pane Is conslderlng developlng exposure data and has
begun a lalsan program mm NPCA and CSMA. The panel Is also
conslder my what role. If any, they Wish to play In an advocacy
program 1th EPA and/or OSHA.
Current .dvocacy actlvltles
1nvolve nteractlons Hlth NIDSH. ACGIH. and ECETDC.
ketones
The pane Is undertaklng an advocacy program on four
ketones m the ITC 115::
MEk. MIB , MD and lsophorone.
The
program nvolves developlng use and exposure 1nfomatlon, as
well as . Voluntary test program.
cm 0379-4
1
10
A Bniday Inhalatlon study on methyl Isobutyl ketone (man
Is curretly underway and reproductlon and teratology studles
are unde conslderatlon. The panel will follow closely comply
mentary Iestlng on methyl ethyl ketone by cm, and methyl
Isoamyl stone by Eastman Kodak. The panel met once mm EPA
on testlg recommendatlons for ketones under Sectlon 4137 and
Is develmplng a document for submlsslon to the Agency.
The
document will present summarles of toxlclty data on the four
ketones .nd use and exposure Infomatlon.
An overv ew of the
research program will also be Included.
Phosgene
Inltlal mm (Albert Elnsteln College of Medlcmey expo*
sure Nor will begln In early November.
Three Inustrlal
safety srveys and all the allled materlal pertlnent were
approved by the Englneerlng and Safety Task Group and the panel
on Octobr 14 and 15, respectlvely.
Phthalat Esters
The 1mm late Esters Program Panel has dlscussed mm the
Test Ruls Development Branch mum of EPA the Voluntary test
program 0 address potentlal health and envlronmental effects
of a cla s of compounds.
TRUE Is urrently proceedlng Hlth
Agency rvlew of the program.
Dr. Hermndez. Deputy Admlnlstrator of EPA,
the mattr of DEEP at thls tune.
Is revlelng
The pane '5 Voluntary test program for DEHA, whlch Is
almed at determlnlng the cause of the bloassay results, will he
presents to FDA.
The pane hopes that FDA will accept the
program n lleu of an Interlm regulatlon or ban on DEHA.
FDA and MA sclentlsts are exchanglng Vlews on the devel*
opment 0 regulatory actlons to assure publlc safety and the
contlnue use of an "Irreplaceable" substance In food contact
appllcat ons.
Polychlo 1nated Blphenyls (pay
The PCB rogram Panel Is preparlng 1:: comments on several
ANPRS re atlng to flnal regulatlons on PCBS. Two surveys were
Initiate to characterlze the nature and scope of chloroblphenyls whlch are Incldentally generated by the chemlcal Indus*
try to Ientlfy the number of pieces of electrlcal equlpment
whlch cotaln PCBS, the Volume of PCB: and thelr concentratlon
ranges. ata form these surveys are In the analysls stage and
Will be ncluded In the panel's submlsslon to EPA.
An analylcal narratlve dlssertatlon descrlblng the prob?
lems and costs assoclated mm lowilevel PCB analysls was
submltte to EPA on August 25, 1931.
am 03795
I
11
An analylcal roundirobln testlng program was Inltlated
1nclud1n laboratorles from member companles and EPA.
Its
purpose 5 m examlne Invarlablllty of results expected from
Varlous aboratorles.
Rubber Adltlves
The cm ubber Addltlves Panel Is revlewlng the flnal
report 5 om thton Blonetlcs.
The stud evaluated the genotoxlc propertles of three commerclal samples of the rubber
acceleraor 2*(Morphollnothloy benzothlazol esul fenamlde (MES).
The Fans Hill chemlcally analyze commerclal mlxtures of ms: to
evaluate the stablllty of the compound. The panel 15 currently
Investlg.t1ng Inltlatlng several other testlng programs on
mercapto benzothlazole propertles of three commerclal samples
of the rbber accelerator 2*(Morphollnothloy benzothlazolesul fenamlde 124557. The panel will chemlcally analyze commerclal
mlxtures of ms to evaluate the stablllty of the compound. The
panel Is currently Investlgatlng Inltlatlng several other test*
mg prog am: on mercaptoibenzothlazole 1mm, nltrosomorphlllne, and addltlonal testlng of ms.
21m; ma kyl Dlthlophosphates 1mm?)
ZDDPS maufactured by Ethyl were subject to a battery of
1n Vltro tests. Posltlve results In some of the assays were
obtalned and Ethyl submltted the Infomatlon to EPA as an ad?
dendum .. a prevlous TSCA Sectlon may report on posslble
reproduclve effects assoclated mm these chemlcals.
Further
mutagenl1ty/carc1nogen1c1ty research on ZDDPS Is under coni
slderatl-n by the Panel. Phase II of the program will examlne
specles ulfferences mm respect to skln absozptlon of ZDDPS
and the se of the rabblt as a model for testlcular effects.
cm
1
cm arms
EXHIBIT ‘
REPORT 0 THE DIRECTOR 0F GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
WILLIAM . sTov‘ER
TAXATION
THE PRES DENT AND THE FEDERAL swam
When Preldent Reagan made his publlc appeal last month on new
proposal to reach his overall budget goals, he rejected delays 1n
any of he recently enacted 1nd1v1dual tax reductlons. Instead,
the Pres dent proposed to enact new measures to ellmlnate "abuses
and obso ate 1ncent1ves 1n the tax code." These 1nclude proposals
to restr at or to repeal the use of tax exempt 1ndustrlal revenue
bonds. .. accelerate the quarterly payment of corporate 1ncome
taxes. .. repeal busmess and 1nd1v1dual energy tax credlts, and to
llmlnate the practlce of allowlng certaln contractors to defer 1ncome
tax paymnts untll the last year of a multkyear contract.
In
addltlon the Presldent raiemphaslzed the need to enact leglslatlon
for addllonal user fees on boats. barges, and prlvate alrplanes.
A5 antlc pated, the proposed sources of new tax resources alted
by the Amlnlstratlon met strong opposltlon on Capltol 3111. Early
warnlng 1gnals from Senate Flnance Commlttee Chalrman Bob Dole
(RiKansa7 1nd1cated that at present a majorlty of the Senate would
prefer .. postpone the effectlve date of the Reagan 1nd1v1dual tax
Gusts fr-m July to October, both 1n 1992 and 1n 1933, rather than
to adopt new taxes so near an electlon year. on the other hand, the
House De ocratlc leadershlp for the moment appears wllllng to allow
pressure from the economy to bulld before dlrectly confrontlng the
Preslden '5 program.
For the omen: the Presldent's optlons appear to be llmlted 1n
addressl my key factors that are largely beyond his control;
1nterest
rates. rvenue flows to the Treasury, and 1nflatlon. At thls writing,
the pass mnty of a major slowdown 1n economlc actlvlty appears to
have coo ed 1nvestor demands for hlgher 1nterest rates, at least for
the moms t.
ENERGY;
NATURAL .AS
1: 15 cu rently expected that when a fomal Admlnlstratlon
posltlon on natural gas deregulatlon 15 announced, 1: Hill 1nclude
a recommndatlon for accelerated phased decontrol of all natural
gas over a three year perlod. The present bellef 15 that an
announce an: Will not be made untll budget and economlc pollcy lssues
have has consldered by the Congress. General prlnclples or gulde*
llnes fo leglslatlon, however, may be provlded to the Congress 1n
order to promote a hearlng process thls year. Congresslonal coni
slderatl-n Will also be 1nfluenced by the nearlng of the 1992 electlons.
cm 0379 3
2
Overslgh hearlngs on wellhead prices for natural gas have
been schduled by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Commlttee
for Noveber 5 and a. The hearlngs are expected to focus on
problems 1nvolved 1n 1mplement1ng the Natural Gas Pollcy Act (NGPA7
speclflc lly Tltle 1. Undoubtedly dlscusslon Will also 1nclude the
broader atural gas lssues, and cm has requested an opportunlty
to appea . No House hearlngs are expected 1n the near future, but
support ontlnues to grow for the major elements of 3.x. 4350,
offered y Representatlve Phll Gramm (D7TX767.
The cm osltlon and supportlng 1nformatlon contlnues m be
provlded to key Admlnlstratlon offlclals and Congresslonal members.
The Gove nment Relatlons Commlttee (GRC7 Energy Task Group 15 also
preparln to offer a natural gas lssues brleflng to member company
Washlngt-n representatlves, posslbly 1n November. A natural gas
"whlte p per" that dlscusses the lssues and chemlcal 1ndustry
Vlewpoln s 15 bemg developed.
ENERGY;
mmmmc PREPAREDN'ESS
on Septeber 30, the Senate Energy and Natural Resourc s
Commltte completed markup of leglslatlon deslgned to deal Hlth a
major pe roleum shortfall. Several amendments to 5.1503, the mu
1ntroducd by Chalman James A. McClure (Rim), were 1ncluded 1n
the Elna Verslon. The Standby Petroleum Allocatlon Act of 1991
15mm w-uld provlde the Presldent mm broad dlscretlonary authorll
and offs a 115: of optlons 1n the event of a severe petroleum
supply 5 ortage. In many respects the reported mu 1: slmllar to
the expl ed Emergency Petroleum Allocatlon Act (EPAA). The same
prlorlty provlslons of the EPAA were added, 1nclud1ng a provlslon
for petr-chemlcals. The mu 1: ready for Senate floor actlon and
actlvlty could occur 1n late October.
Markup h.s been delayed' 1n the House Energy and Commerce Sub?
commltte on Fossll and Synthetlc Fuels, and probably will not be
held unt 1 sufflclent support exlsts among Subcommlttee members to
report 0 t a mu.
CHowever Chalman thp R. sharp (DrIerD) dle
1ntroduc a b111, 3.x. 47mm, 51ml“ 1n many respects to the unamem
Senate Vrslon. The Standby Authorlty Petroleum Allocatlon Act of
1991 ms ers by not 115mm; speclflc prlorlty guldellne provlslons,
but woul requlre adoptlon of regulatlons conslstent mm the
prlorltls speclfled 1n the old EPAA.
The Adm lstratlon remalns opposed to the passage of any
leglslat on to deal mm an energy emergency. cm, likewise, balls“
that no eglslatlon 15 necessary and that free market forces can
best all-cate resources.
In the e an: that leglslatlon appears
imminent the CMA effort will be to assure recognltlon of a high
prlorlty for feedstocks, as 1n the Senate mu.
ENVIRON | NT;
CLEAN AI ACT AMENDMENTS
The Reag.n Admlnlstratlon 15 beglnnlng m provlde some of the
momentum necessary for amendment of the Clean Alr Act.
cm 0379 4
1
3
In late .eptember, Presldent Reagan reafflrmed "the Admlnlsi
tratlon' keen Interest In seemg Congress make much needed
correctl-ns m the Clean Alr Act thls year", In a letter to Senate
Majorlty Leader Howard Baker and to House Mlnorlty Leader Robert Mlchel.
The Pres dent's letter descrlbed the Clean Alr Act as "our top
prlorlty 1n the area of regulatory resom", and changes 1n the Act
as " sse tlal m the success of our overall economc recovery
program. .
Since thn. Vice Presldent Bush has begun selectlvely coni
tactlng embers of the Senate Envlronment and Publlc Works Commlttee
and the ouse Energy and Commerce Commlttee to encourage development
of mp“ lsan leglslatlon 1n accordance Hlth the 11 prlnclples
announce by EFA Admlnlstrator Anne Gorsuch 1n early August.
Senator obert T. Stafford HHITJ, Chalrman of the Senate CommlttEE,
now has taff worklng to develop consensus and leglslatlve language
for Comm ttee markiup, posslbly late 1n October. The Commlttee's
new pace could be a reflectlon of the fact that Stafford has just
announce he 15 runnlng for raielectlon, and thus seeks closer tles
Hlth the Admlnlstratlon.
on Octobr 13, cm representatlves met mm the Senate Commlttee
staff to dlscuss recently released draft leglslatlve language. Our
represen atlves emphaslzed our concern on the Preventlon of Significant
De: rlor-tlon (Psm proposals, but we focused prlmarlly on the
Hazardou Alr Pollutants porgram proposals (Sectlon 1127.
In the H-uSE, there has been llttle movement toward the draftlng
of a co 1ned moblle and statlonary sources mm by
Chalrman John D. mngen (DrMIrlay and Ranklng Mlnorlty Leader
James T. Broyhlll (RrNCrlD). Industry hopes to generate 1nterest 1n
1ntroduc lon of the necessary bipartlsan, comprehenslve leglslatlon
followln the hearlngs 1n the Subcommlttee on Health and the
Envlronmnt, whlch are scheduled through November 9.
cm test many on recommended unprovements regardlng PSD requlre*
ments of the Clean Alr Act will be dellvered at hearlngs of the
Health 5 bcommlttee scheduled for October 29. In addltlon. a detalled
statemen on all cm recommended revlslons Will be submltted for
the reco d.
Our Clea Alr Act leglslatlve program contlnues to 1nclude
actlve p.rt1c1patlon 1n a broad busmess coalltlon organlzed to
work for amendments thls year. We helped develop the coalltlon's
consensu document detalllng 12 baslc areas of necessary change 1n
the Act 0 "make 1: work". We are cooperatlng 1n sharlng the document
Hlth Conresslonal members and staff 1n order to show 1ndustry unlty
for pro t actlon.
am 03795
4
Further. as part of our objectlve to generate both publlc
acceptan e and more posltlve medla treatment of the need to amend
the Clea Alr Act, 3 cm "Actlon Advlsory" was lssued on September 25
to all mmber companles, urglng: contact mm Senators and
Represen atlves; educatlon of local medla, local opinion leaders and
groups; -nd, encouragement of others to help carry the message.
Backgrou d materlals were provlded and supplemental materlals are
belng 5e t 1n later malllngs.
ENVIRON ‘ NT:
snowuwza ER PoLICy
Rep. Tob Moffett (DiConnJ September 10 sent a letter to
EFA Adm lstrator Gorsuch crltlclzlng ERA'S "lack of actlon" on
groundwa er protectlon. The Moffet letter asked Gorsuch to respond
by septa her an mm "all documents and materlals relatlng to
your decslon not to lssue a natlonal groundwater strategy at thls
tune." 24.55355 maln concern 1: that the Admlnlstratlon Will not
contlnue worklng on a Natlonal Groundwater Pollcy Guldance Docum nt.
cm test ﬁled last year 1n support of the development of such a
Groundwa er Guldance Document.
1
In the p-st, Moffett has threatened to 1ntroduce federal
leglslaton to regulate groundwater 15 a Natlonal Pollcy was not
develops Hlthln EPA. Moffet's Subcommlttee on Envlronment, Energy
and Natu 31 Resources of the House Government Dperatlons Commlttee,
Hill conuct an overslght hearlng October 21, 1991 m dlscuss mm
EPA Adm lstrator Anne Gorsuch the status of the groundwater pollcy <
and othe lssues.
ENVIRON ‘ NT:
CLEAN WIER ACT
on septa her 24 the House Publlc Works and Transportatlon
Commltte- completed work on 3.x. 4503 (Roe. mum to authorlze for
one yea (M 19327 52.4 bllllon for the sewage treatment constructlon
grants u ogram.
1: was specter! that Rep. Jim Dberstar (Drum would
offer a amendment that would extend the 1994 date for achlevlng
Best Av.lable Technology (BAT).
1
The Cle. Water Act Task Group of the Government Relatlons
Commltte‘. expressed the followlng concerns Hlth the Dberstar
amendme :
The Che cal 1ndustry needs a comprehenslve revlew
of the ash Water Act 1n 1932.
These ne-ds go far beyond a slmple extenslon of
BAT reg rements.
mule we support an extenslon of the 1994 BAT date,
we have . deep concern that the 1ncluslon of such
an amen ent now Will preclude a comprehenslve re*
Vlew of 1tles 3 and 4 next year.
Thus. u as: we can be assur d that the passage of
thls amn dment now would not preclude a full revlew
of the . 11 next y ar, we would prefer that non*
constru lon grant provlslons be consldered earlv
next ye. .
fl
1234
cm 037.15
5
r
an
d
The T5: Group contacted key members of the Publlc Works
and Tra portatlon Commlttee and expressed these concerns.
Subsequ- tly, Rep. Dberstar dld not offer his amendment 1n Commlttee,
but the onstructlon grants b111, 3.x. 4503, could be brought to
the Hou- floor by the end of October, and Mr. Dberstar 15 conslderlng
offerln ms amendment at that tune. The Task Group will be expresslng
the she cal 1ndustry's concerns mm the tlmlng of the Dberstar
amendme mm key members of the House, and stresslng the need for
a compr-I enslve revlew of the Clean Water Act 1n 1932.
on Sept- her 23, the Senate Envlronment and Publlc Works Commltte
complet-d 1:: work on the constructlon grants b111, s. 1274. Durlng
the seslon the Commlttee Voted unanlmously to repeal the Industrlal
Cost Exluslon provlslon (the scicalled Stafford Amendment). cm
submltt-d a letter supportlng the repeal of ICE to all members of
the Elm! ronment and Publlc Works Commlttee.
ENVIRON | NT:
swmm} - DEVELOPMENTS
am has .een granted the rlght to 1ntervene 1n the New Jersey
Attorne General's lawsult on praiemptlon agalnst the Federal
Governm-nt. Judge Flannery of the v.5. Dlstrlct Court for the
Dlstrlc of Columbla will now hear the Federal Government's motlon
to dlsm 55 the case.
EPA Adm nlstrator Anne Gorsuch has recommended to DME that the
Amy Cows of Englneers be used to 35515: 1n the cleanup of
hazardo 5 Haste dumpsltes under Superfund, Rep. James Florlo (Drum
became .oncerned about the use of the Corps for cleanup and asked
cm for 1:: Vlews.
In a le-ter to my: Davld Stockman dated
Septembr 15, CMA strongly supported the use of prlvate contractors
1n the eslgn and constructlon work requlred under Superfund. CMA
531d th Corps presently does not have the experlence'or tralned
personnl that Will be necessary to conduct the remedlal cleanup
program called for 1n Superfund.
Rep. Fl-rlo held an overslght hearlng on the Superfund law
July 29, before his Subcommlttee on Commerce, Transportatlon and
Tourlsm of the House Energy and Commerce Commlttee. Durlng the
hearlng, Florlo developed a dlscusslon on jolnt and several llablllty
Hlth EP'S Gorsuch and Department of Justlce's Carol mnkms that
appears to confuse the lssues. cm therefore felt 1: necessary
to subm t for the hearlng record a legal memorandum on jolnt and
several llablllty. We contend that the fallure of Congress to pro*
vme jo nt and several liability was 1ntentlonal. The CMA Vlews
were thn crltlzed by Senator Robert Stafford ”Hm 1n the Congre57
slonal 'ecord of September 9.
cm 037.17
a
TAXATID ;
swmm} - TAXES
am has learned that a draft of proposed 1ntezpretatlve
regulat ons on the appllcatlon of the exclse taxes 1mposed on
chemlca s and petroleum under the Superfund leglslatlon 15 belng
revlewe Hlthln the Internal Revenue Servlce. We antlelpate that
the proosed regulatlons Will be movlng forward from the ms to
the Tre.sury Department Within the next few weeks.
INTERNAIDNAL TRADE;
EXPORT.IF HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
Preslde t Reagan requested from his Secretarles of State and
Commerc on February 17, 1991 proposals for changes 1n exlstlng
notlflc.tlon systems for exports of "hazardous... substances. A
large poportlon of pestlclde exports would be most affected along
Hlth prducts eventually to be restrlcted under TSCA. The Reagan
Admlnls-ratlon has dropped any plans for control or prohibition of
such exorts as provlded for 1n Presldent Carter's executlve order
whlch Pesldent Reagan subsequently revoked.
Since F-bruary, the Commerce and State Departments have eni
counter-d dlsagreements 1n writing the jolnt response. The most
serlous dlfference of opinion 15 through what channels 1nformatlon
15 m b passed from the v.5. exporter m the country recelvlng the
product .~ The most llkely cholce at thls writing appears to be the.
v.5. emassy of the recelvlng country. Another lssue 1n the jolnt,
respons Will be whether recommendatlons are made to amend approi t
prlate -ectlons of exlstlng 17mm and TSCA laws. The cm posltlon)
that TSI should not be amended for thls purpose has been strongly?
emphasled by our spokesman.
The am has worked closely Hlth government offlclals durlng
thls press: of evaluatlon. Close liaison Hlth *the Natlonal
Agrlculural Chemlcals Assoclatlon and the Pharmaceutlcal Manufatk
turers ssoclatlon has been malntalned and a fully coordlnated
posltlo malntalned.
1: 15 e pasted that He Will be allowed to
comment on the flnal draft before 1: 15 approved by an 1nteragency"
commltte.
INTERNA IDNAL TRADE;
NORTH A IRICAN TRADE POLICY
The Adm nlstratlon contlnues to take initiatives toward new
trade arangements Hlth Mexlco and Canada. Tenslons mm Canada ;
over 1:- Natlonal Energy Flan and the Federal Investment Revlew Act
and Hit Mexlco on a number of lssues have served to helghten the '
actlvlt .
The Pre-ldent made a report to Congress on a North Amerlcan t»
unlon 0 July 2a. 315 Visits Hlth Mexlcan Presldent Lopez Portlllo
and Can.dlan Prune Mlnlster Trud au have been only prellmlnarles but
they ha a trlggered followup actlvltles. A jolnt v. 5./Mex1co
am 03719
1
7
Commlss on of top level offlclals has been conned and met recently.
Evldenc grows that Mexlco and Canada are seeklng duty free access
to the .5. petrochemlcal market. The Admlnlstratlon has stated
that 1: wlshes to free up markets and trade flows. 1: 15 llkely
that perochemlcal agreements will eventually be made. v.5.
chemlca exports to Canada 1n 1980 were 52.1 bllllon and to Mexlco,
51.4 m llon. These totalled 17 percent of all v.5. chemlcal exports.
cm 15 alntalnlng close liaison mm a Senate Caucus and a
v.5. Ch. her of Commerce group worklng on thls matter. A letter has
been set to v.5. Trade Representatlve Brock by Mr. Leo Johnstone,
Phillip Petroleum Company. The letter emphaslzes the chemlcal
1ndustr stake 1n a trade arrangement, and requests that the 1ndustry
b kept nfomed of developments affectlng chemlcals 1n the hope that
th 1ndu try Will be able to support whatever agreement 15 made.
Varlous pieces of leglslatlon 1n the Congress deallng mm
Canadla government pollcy have been 1ntroduced but are not llkely
to see ignlflcant actlon soon.
INTERNA IDNAL TRADE;
SEMINAR PLANNED
on nece ner a and 9, the Internatlonal Trade Commlttee will
hold a rade semlnar at the Marrlott Hotel. 22nd and M Streets.
Washlngon, v_c. M11: Hunt, Chalman of the me, Will preslde.
Subject of 1nterest to chemlcal companles Will be covered thoroughly
by high y quallfled speakers from the Congress and agencles.
Feature Will be an 1ntroductory overvlew by Leo Johnstone, Executlve
Vlc Preldent 7 Phillips Petroleum Company. Ambassador 5111 Brock
Hill spak at a dlnner December a.
Brochurs mm detalls and a reglstratlon form will be wldely
dlstrlbted on October 23.
SAFETY . u HEALTH;
TSCA RE UTHDRIZATIDN
on Septmber 29 the House approved 3.x. 3495, the Energy and
Commerc Commlttee mu m reauthorlze TSCA for two years at a
fundlng level of $52 million (plus 51.5 million for state programs).
5. 1211 passed by the Senate last May, would reauthorlze TSCA for
one yea at 559.5 mllllon. A Conference 1: expected to resolve the
dlffere ces shortly.
Followl g our work Hlth key House members and staff to avold
counter productlve amendments to TSCA earller thls year, cm
contlnus to respond to Congressman Florlo's staff 1n thelr efforts
to mom or the Reagan Admlnlstratlon's 1mplementatlon of TSCA generally.
Mr. Flo 1o 5:111 plans to call for an Offlce of Technology Assessment
cm 037-19
9
study 0 the adequacy of the PMN test data, although the letter
formall requestlng am to begln work has not been sent.
In the
meantlm, cm 15 worklng Hlth EPA to produce a Vlable PMN exemptlon:
pollcy or new, low rlsk chemlcals under sectlon 121m of TSCA,
as well as the negotlatlons between the v.5. and 0mm, regardlng
3 deals on on mmmum premarket data, and the 1nterpretlve not
languag to remedy chemlcal 1ndustry concerns.
SAFETY - u HEALTH:
OSHA RE mm
on Septmber 23 Senator Paula Hawklns' (RiFlaJ Overslght and
Investlatlons Subcommlttee began long awalted hearlngs on OSHA
overslg t, focused broadly on the Agency's admlnlstratlon of the Act
and rec-mmendatlons for the future. Thorns Auchter was commended
for his efforts to redirect the Agency away from 1:5 prevlous
adversa 131 approach. Senator Kennedy, as expected, was crltlcal 01
what he percelved m be an "emasculatlon" of worker protectlons
under t e Act. He trled to embarrass Mr. Auchter for medla effect,
but on he wholE, Auchtdr stood up well to the questlonlng and made
an effe tlve presentatlon.
The Reaan Admlnlstratlon Will not be movlng toward leglslatlve
change n thls area untll other prlorltles are handled and there
has has an opportunlty m determlne whlch admlnlstratlve refoms
have de onstrated success. cm 15 worklng closely Hlth the new
leaders 1p at OSHA, and mm a broad based 1ndustry coalltlon, for
the purose of developlng recommendatlons for OSHA reform at the
approprate tune.
SAFETY - u HEALTH;
HAZARDS CDMMUNICATIDNS/LABELING
on Octoer Congressman Gaydos" Health and Safety Subcommlttc
contlnud 1:5 hearlngs on osaA's wlthdrawal of 1:: proposed hazards
commum atlons standard, recelvlng testlmony from Master Chemlcal
Company Master testlfled agalnst the orlglnal proposed OSHA stands
from a mall chemlcal company standpolnt, provldlng detall as to ho"
dlsclos re of speclflc chemlcal 1dent1ty could ham 1:: busm 55.
The nex hearlngs have been scheduled for November 3, at whlch OSHA!
Thorns uchter Hill testlfy on labellng as well as other matters
Hlthln he framework of OSHA overslght.
cm con 1nues m provlde followup 1nfomatlon m the Subcoramlt
and to ork mm Subcommlttee members responslve m 1ndustry posltlo
Slmulta eously, CMA has sought to 55515: the new task force at OSHA
1n deveopment of a new performance*or1ented, cost effectlve and
reasona-le hazards communlcatlons standard.
SAFETY A u HEALTH;
HOUSE a mum on THE RITTER RISK ANALYSIS BILL
on Septmber 24 the House 5m nee Subcommlttee on Res arch and.
Technol-QY, chalred by Doug Walgren (DiPaJ, held a hearlng on
cm 037.20
9
Congresman Don thter's (RiPaJ Rlsk Analysls Research and
Demons: atlon Act of 1991 13.11. 34417 . Th1: mu calls for
develop an: of comparatlve rlsk analysls methodology 1n 3 research
and dem-nstratlon program under the dlrectlon of the Whlte House
Offlce .5 Sclence and Technology Pollcy. 1: would authorlze
51.7 mllllon for a twoiyear government R L n program to 1mprove
rlsk an-lysls technlques 1n regulatory declslonmaklng, and a twoyear rlsk analysls study by regulatory agencles and the Natlonal
Sclence Foundatlon.
Testlfyng 1n favor of the mm were Congressman Jim Martln
“Ham. Congressman thter, Attorney Mlchael Baram, and Brooklngs'
Dr. Les er Lave. Dr. James Mlller. then Executlve Dlrector of the
Whlte H-use Task Force on Regulatory Rellef, testlfled on behalf of
the Admnlstratlon. Dr. Mlller agreed Hlth the goals and concepts of
the legslatlon, but could not give 1: ms offlclal support. In
his me , 3.x. 3441': goals could be achleved through exlstlng
mechanlms Within OMB (1.e., the Task Force on Regulatory Rehecy
wlthout addltlonal approprlatlons.
TRANSPD'TATIDN:
HAZARDS 5 MATERIALS
The dlferlng Senate and House mus that reauthorlze and
amend t e Hazardous Materlals Transportatlon Act are awaiting floor
actlon. 3.x. 3403 1: Scheduled for October 1415 and s. 950 should
be Vote on by the end of October. CMA 15 explorlng the posslbllltles
for an = endment 1n the Senate provldlng federal preemptlon and
unlfomty of hazardous materlals transportatlon laws. There 15 also
a possl-lllty of efforts to add undeslrable floor amendments.
TRANSPD'TATIDN:
RAILRDAI DEREGULATIDN
A hearl g on r311 deregulatlon has been scheduled by the Senate
Commercn Sclence and Transportatlon Commlttee for November 10. Th
overslg t hearlngs are expected to address problems 1nvolved Hlth
unpleme tatlon of the staggers R311 Act that passed 1n the last
sesslon. CMA 1: 1n the process of preparlng comments to be submltted
for the record and may present testlmony.
TRANSPD'TATIDN:
MARITIM REFORM
Leglsla 1Ve proposals that would revlse the regulatlon of
1n: rna lonal llner shlpplng operatlons 1n forelgn commerce are
belng c-nsldered. Hearlngs were held 1n late September before the
cm 037921
10
Senate ommerCE, Sclence and Transportatlon Subcommlttee on
Merchan Marlne. cm presented testlmony on s. 1593, a mu
offers by Chalrman Slade Gorton 1R7Wash.) and ﬁlled a supplemental
stateme t for the record 1n response to questlons glven the CMA.
wltness. Actlvlty has also begun 1n the House Merchant Marlne
and F15 erles Commlttee. Merchant Marlne Subcommlttee Chalman
Marlo : aggl (DrNleD) 1ntroduced a b111, 3.x. 4374, and scheduled
hearln for October 7, 13, and 19. cm 15 preparlng :9 ﬁlls a
stateme t for the record.
Both Se ate and House Verslons may proceed to early markup,
even t nugh the Admlnlstratlon posltlon 15 not expected untll the
end of lctober.
TRANSPI'TATIDN t
vsmz m s LEGISLATION
There 15 1ncreaslng 1nterest 1n leglslatlon deallng mm the
1nland aterways system and harbors and ports. User fees are a
major omponent of Presldent Reagan's economc proposals, and
leglsl.1on 15 belng 1ntroduced to permit authorltles to collect us
fees :- repay 1mprovement and development costs. Proposals are bel
c1rcul.ed and hearlngs could be announced 1n both the Senate and
House. CMA 15 worklng mm a coalltlon of organlzatlons as the
lssues and tlmetables unfold.
REGULA any REFORM LEGISLATION
cm 15 actlvely seeklng passage of ombus regulatory reform
leglsl.tlon. Cooperatlng Hlth allled busmess groups behlnd the
leadershlp of the Busmess Roundtable, CMA has asslsted 1n the
develo ent of 5. men, the Regulatory Refom Act, 1ntroduced by
Senato Paul Laxalt (R7NeV—7. The focus has been to secure amend?
ments man would provlde that "good sclence" be consldered a prlni
alpal Iactor 1n the regulatory recom declslonimaklng process.
5. me has been reported mm amendments by both the Senate
Jud1c1.ry Commlttee and the Senate Government Affalrs Commlttee.
The Go ernment Affalrs Verslon of thls leglslatlon 1ncludes one of
CMA'S "good sclence" amendments. CMA 15 worklng to assure that a
compro 15s Verslon Will be passed by the Senate 1n the near, future.
In the HouSE, the Judlclary Subcommlttee on Admlnlstratlve
Law fa orably reported 3.x. 74a (Danlelson*D.*Callf.7 m the Full
Commlt as October 1, 1931.
cm 03 922
1
u
PATENT:
RESTD'TIDN 0F THE PATENT ram
am so tlnues to work actlvely 1n support of leglslatlon to
restor- to the term of a patent grant the perlod durlng whlch
market mg or use of a patented product 15 delayed because of the
ne d :- secure Federal regulatory approval.
The ke mm: on thls subject are 5. 255 (Mathlasﬂiide and
3.x. 1-37 (Kastlnmeleriljivhsd and they are substantlally Similar.
Th Sen.te mu passed 1n July. The House Judlclary Subcommlttee
on Couts. awn Libertles, and the Admlnlstratlon of Justlce began
1:5 he.r1ngs on thls subject 1n September and held subsequent hearlngs
1n Dct-ber.
cm 15 worklng 1n 3 busmess coalltlon under the leadershlp of
the Ph.maceut1cal Manufacturers' Assoclatlon to secure passage.
PATENT:
UNIFIEI comm 0F APPEALS
on Dct-ber 14, 1931, the House Judlclary Commlttee favorably
reportd, mm amendments. 3.x. 4432, a mu m establlsh a smgle
court .5 patent appeals. Th1: mu may be taken up on the House
floor nder suspenslon of the rules Hlthln the next few weeks.
The Se ate Verslon. (s. 1700, DoleﬂiikansJ. Will be marked up
by the Senate Judlclary Commlttee on Tuesday, October 20. The key
155“ a- that time Will be a proposed amendment by Senator Baucus
(DiMon-J to allow the present Federal Clrcult Courts of Appeal to
retaln jurlsdlctlon over patent appeals. CMA 15 worklng closely 1n
the co.lltlon of allled busmess 1nterests 1n support of 5.. 17m,
and 1n opposltlon m the Baucus amendment.
sum: FFAIRS
sum: FFAIRS SPECIAL COMMITTEE:
INTERNL DEVELOPMENTS
At 1:: September 17 meetlng, the State Affalrs Speclal Commlttee
was hr efed by cm Technlcal Department staff on current and emerglng
alr an surface water lssues at the state level. Th1: paralleled a
51mlla brleflng on Federal Superfund luvplementatlon made at the
prior eetlng.
cm 03 923
12
ISSUE IASK snows
In add tlon m endorslng the Commlttee charter, subsequently
approV-d by the Executlve Commlttee and Board at thelr Septemb r
meetlnn. the Commlttee addressed 1:: leglslatlve and regulatory
prlorl-les for 1932. Th1: process began Hlth the dlstrlbutlon
of a 5.5m lssues survey whlch canvassed all member companles,
cm 5:.56, and key technlcal commlttees. Based upon the results
of the more than 100 responses recelved, the Commlttee establlshed
lssue ask groups 1n the followlng areas:
a
e
e
e
Hazardmus Waste Dlsposal (Superfund and Sltlng)
Hazard- Communlcatlon (R1ght*to*Know7
Hazardnus Materlals Transportatlon
Envlromental (Alr and Water oualltyy
Wlthln 1:5 asslgned subject area, each lssue task group Hill:
a
e
e
e
e
monlto the 1ntroductlon and progress of State
leglsl tlon and Significant regulatlon;
1dent1 y the component elements of the issue;
where .pproprlate Assoclatlon pollcy does not
exlst, work mm cm technlcal and functlonal
commlt ass to clarlfy or develop the requlred
pollcy
workln through member companles and approprlate
local ntltles. seeks to coordlnate 1ndustry
partlc patlon 1n state leglslatlve and regulatory
advoca y programs;
provld support, through the State Affalrs Speclal
Commlt as, to all CMA commlttees and program area?
1n ordr to assure a conslstent Federal/State pollcy.
Octobe meetlngs were held so that lssue task groups could
organle, address any remalnlng 1991 leglslatlve and/or regulatory
propos.ls, revlew 1991 actlvlty, establlsh contact mm the corresp<
mg a A technlcal staff and technlcal Commlttee for brleflngs on
pollcy develop procedures and asslgn responslbllltles for 1nformat:
and 1n elllgence gatherlng, analyze states whlch are llkely m b
actlve and dlscuss advocacy mechanlsms and coalltlons. Issu task
groups will contlnue these meetlngs through the fall to prepare for
the bemmng of the 1992 leglslatlve sesslons.
FUNCTIINAL TASK snows
The St.te Affalrs Speclal Commlttee establlshed two functlonal
task .. cups to address the communlcatlons requlrements of the CMA
state rogram.
cm 03 924
13
The E -ctron1c Servlce Task Group Hill;
a
e
serve as the forum for the periodic screenlng
and s_lectlon of Vendors of electronlc leglsi
latlv. and regulatory tracklng servlcesi
monlt-r the performance of the contractlng
Vendos and serve as a liaison between the
cheml-al 1ndustry subscrlbers and the elec*
tronl- servlces suppllers;
coord nate perlodlc training and 1nfomatlon
sessl-ns for member company personnel on
equip ant and system servlces.
Th1: .ask group fomallzes the efforts of an ad hoc group of chemlcal
1ndu5-ry companles who contracted Hlth an electronlc state mm and
regul.tory tracklng servlce for 1991. mm these contracts expiring
at th and of December. the task group has been engaged 1n selectlng
an aproprlate Vendor for 1932. Th1: process 15 now complete and
contr.cts are expected to be Signed 1n early November. In addltlon,
the t_sk group 15 actlvely encouraglng addltlonal member companles
and a lled trade assoclatlons to Sign up for the state monltorlng
servles.
The 5 mil task group 15 deslgned m provlde the basls for
coord hated natlonwlde communlcatlons on state leglslatlve and
regul.tory matters for the chemlcal 1ndustry. The Network Task
Group H1115
e
e
e
by dr.w1ng upon the resources of CMA member
compales and Industry Counclls, develop a
reglser of personnel to provlde the basls
for bth 1ntelllgence gatherlng and advocacy
efforsi
1nter ace mm other natlonal and state trade
and bsmess assoclatlons m facllltate the
exchage of 1nfomatlon and the coordlnatlon
of ac lvltlesi
provlwe through 1:: personnel reglster, addltlonal
resou ass to the lssue task groups to enhance
thelr dellvery capabllltles;
seek o enhance the effectlveness and 1nfluence
of th chemlcal 1ndustry 1n the Varlous states
by Ho king to strengthen or organlze Chemlcal
Indus ry Counclls or other slmllar groups as
focal polnts for local efforts.
cm 0.7925
14
CHEM]: L muusmy cowcm RELATIONS
The 5 ate Affalrs Dlvlslon staff 15 contlnulng 1:5 efforts to
meet ersonally mm members of the Varlous CIC'S. Durlng Septembex
and o tobar. state counclls 1n Mlchlgan, Callfornla, New Jersey
and Tnnessee were Visited.
1991 EGISLATIVE ACTIVITY WINDING DOWN
The V-st majorlty of state leglslatures have adjourned for
the y-ar mm only a few of the major 1ndustrlal states remalnlng
1n reular sesslon. A few states are 1n speclal sesslon m consldex
part1 ular lssues such as reapportlonment and taxes. There has bear
some .ctlvlty thls fall 1n several states on two of our prlorlty
lssue .
suw- mm.
on S-otember 24, Governor Brown Signed 1nto law SB 618 whlch
culm mates 3 long and dlfflcult debate 1n Callfornla over stat
Supefund. Startlng mm three wldely dlvergent mus sponsored by
comp-tlng 1nterests, the flnal product 1513 51m reflects Significant
succ-ss on the part of the chemlcal 1ndustry. Although some of the
prov slons of the state act go beyond what 1ndustry advocated, the
Elna Verslon 1: much more reasonable than the radlcal proposal
advoated by the Brown admlnlstratlon and 1:5 envlronmental supports
on he whole, 1ndustry worked closely and effectlvely on thls issue.
cm ontrlbuted the servlces of 1:: legal staff to 35515: 1n draftln'
langage durlng late June and early July. Also, the Callfornla (:1:
has ecsntly declded to establlsh a permanently staffed offlce.
In NH Jersey, dlscusslons are contlnulng concernlng proposed
comp ehenslve amendments (NJ AB 34117 to the State Splll Fund Act
whlc predates Federal Superfund. Compllcatlng these dlscusslons
are he lawsults brought by Elva New Jersey companles (Exxon, Tennec
BF G-odrlch. Monsanto and Unlon Carblde) 1n New Jersey, and by the
Stat- of New Jersey agalnst EFA 1n Washlngton 1n whlch cm 1nterv net
The - sluts seek to address the questlon of whether New Jersey's tax
15 reempted by Federal Superfund. 1: 15 5:111 posslble that the
New Jersey Leglslature Will take up thls subject 1n lame duck sesslor
1n ovember. am has worked closely durlng the past several months
Hit both the cm and the lltlgants group to keep all partles fully
1nfrmed.
RIG TiToiKNDW
Healngs were held on September 15 1n Madlson, Wlsconsln, on
AB .15 whlch 15 sponsored by Assemblywoman Muntz.
Ind stry 15 workll
to nsure that 1:: most damaglng provlslons are not passed.
a A 037925
15
on the munlclpal level, Clnclnnatl, Dhlo scheduled hearlngs
1n October on an ordlnance that 15 potentlally Very unfavorable
to 1ndustry. Santa Monlca, Callfornla, 15 also movlng on a
s liar proposal.
K
MA 037927
GENDA
M G of THE cm 13mm: 017 ummmns
Monday Tuesday, August 30731, 1992
Sllvarado Co y Club, Sllverado East Room
Napa Valley, Call 13
Call to Order Chal n Slmeral
COMMITTEE canmm REPORTS:
Energy Commlttee
Chalman: James D. Beatty, The Frost Gamble Company
Distrlbutlon Commlttee
Chalmani u. G. Grlffln, PPG Industrles, Inc.
Envlronmental Management Commlttee
Chalman: 3111 u. Cazpenter, Monsanto Company
lD:l7rll:Dl
Englneerlng Advlsory Commlttee
Chalman: Robert L. Klausmeler. E. 1. du Pont
de Nemours & Company
11:01711:45
Government Relatlons Commlttee
Chalman: Robert E. Hampton, 1:1 Amerlcas. Inc.
LUNCH (Falrway Deck)
Th1: Board meetlng Hill contlnue Tuesday
August 31, beglnnlng at 9:00 a.m., 1n
Sllverado East Room.
Next meetlng of the Board of Dlrectors:
Palmer HouSE, Chlcago, 111mm:
cm 037990
Agenda Meetlng of the cm Board of Dlrectors monunuedy
Call to Drdar and Approval of Mlnutas Chalrman
Juna 2, 1992 (Regular Maamngy
Juna 3, 1992 (Drganlzatlonal Maamngy
Report of Executlve Commlttaa Chalrman Fernandez
Treasurer's Raport G. c. Harrman
1
Aasoclatlon Actlvltla":
TAB
Raport of tha Fraaldant R. A. Roland
Raport on EPA Mattara
Changas 1n Task Group“ undar anc, EMC and 053:
111. EEC Confldantlallty of Zdantlty of Substances
Proposed Program on Mathylanadlanlllna (MBA)
T.V. Ad Program Raconnandatlon
2
3
4
Internatlonal Trade Lao Johnsmne;
Phillips Petroleum Company
5
lD:DSrlD:2D
Raport of Technlcal Dlrector G. v. Cox
5
10:2071035
Report of General Counsel n. F. 2911
7
10:3571050
Raport of Dlrector of Government Relatlons
a
lmsninms
Raport of Dlrector of Conmunlcatlons
9
n:nsinas
Naw Buslnass
11:15
Adjoummant
cm 037991
2191
mum's: of the twoihundred elghtyinlnth meetlng of the Board of Dlrectors of
the Chemlcal Manufacturers Assoclatlon. Inc., held at Sllverado Country Club,
Napa Valley, Callfornla, on Monday at 3:00 a.m. and Tuesday at 9:00 a.m.,
August amand 31, 1932.
Dlr ctors:
Willlam G. Slmeral. Chalman
Edwln c. Holmer. Vice Chalman
Dexter F. Baker
Raymond F. Bentelle
Charles E. Brooke:
Barry W. Buchanan
Carlyle G. Caldwell
Lester E. Coleman
Drell T. Colllns
Harry Corless
Robert 5. Dudley
Louls Fernandez
John T. Flies
Alec Flam
Joseph P. Flannery
Arthur L. Goeschel 117
Floyd u. Gottwald, Jr.
T. Marshall Hahn, Jr.
Ben c. Bayton
James E. Henderson (17
Paul F. Hoffman
Ray R. Iranl
John 5. Ludlngton
leght c. Mlnton
Roy F. Reld
Robert A. Roland
M. Whltson Sadler
James F. Schorr
Harold A. Sorgentl
Allan J. Tomllnson
Edward A. Von Doersten
Willlam G. West
Louls G. Zachary
Secretary:
Bruce M. Barackman
Gary c. aeman
Davld F. 2911
By Invltatlon
James D. Beatty, The Procter & Gamble Company 117
W111 u. Cazpenter, Monsanto Company
Geraldlne v. Cox, CMA
Robert E. Hampton, 1:1 Amerlcas Inc.
Leo a. Johnstone. Phillips Petroleum Company
Robert L. Klausmeler. E. 1. du Pont de Nemours & Company
Paul F. Dre661CE, The Dow Chemlcal Company
Vlctor E. Peterson. CMA
Ernest s. Robson. Jr. (SDCMAV. Monsanto Company
James a. Sanger, Monsanto Company
Willlam M. Stover, cm
Rlchard L. Wllson. cm
117 flrst day only
am 037992
2192
Monday. August 30, 1992
The meetlng was called to order by Chalman Slmeral.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Executlve Summarles are attached 1n lleu of the
complete commlttee reports whlch have been prevr
ously dlstrlbuted m the Board.
ENERGY COMMITTEE
The commlttee report, supplemented mm Chalrman Beatty's report, 15
attached as Exhibit A.
ENGINEERING ADVISORY COMMITTEE
The commlttee report, supplemented mm Chalrman Klausmeler's report,
15 attached as Exhlblt B.
sovmwmm RELATIONS COMMITTEE
The commlttee report, supplemented mm Chalrman Hampton's report, 15
attached as Exhibit c.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
The commlttee report, supplemented mm Chalrman Carpenter's report, 15
attached as Exhibit D.
ursnusumou COMMITTEE
The report of the Dlstrlbutlon Commlttee was cancelled.
recelved at the October 5, 1932, meetlng.
1: Will be
The Board adjourned untll 9:00 a.m., Tuesday, August 31.
Tuesday, August 31, 1992
mum's: 017 JUNE 2, AND 3, 1932, MEETINGS
The mlnutes of the June 2, and 3, 1932, Board meetlngs were approved
as dlstrlbuted.
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Chalman Fernanda., reported the followlng actlons taken by the Executlve
Commlttee the precedlng day:
cm 037993
2193
Approved expanslon of CMA'S state affalrs program, 1nclud1ng the
addltlon to staff of two professlonals and one support person at
an annuallzed cost of $123,000. Th1: 15 to be accompllshed Hlthln
the current budget reduced by $300,000 and Within the presently
authorlzed 147 personnel level.
a
Approved the recommendatlon of the Communlcatlons Commlttee that
the T.V. ad program be postponed 1ndefln1tely. Dr. Fernandez then
put thls declslon 1n perspectlve by revlewlng the hlstory of the
communlcatlons program, 1nclud1ng ChemCAP, and advlslng that reef
ommendatlons Will be recelved from the Communlcatlons Commlttee
1nvolv1ng a Significant reductlon 1n prlnt ad expendltures and a
change 1n emphasls 1n the prlnt ad program.
a
Beard 3 report from Flnance Commlttee Chalrman Sella. The loss of
several members will result 1n 3 dues shortfall of approxlmately
$300,000 thls flscal year whlch would translate to a budget deflclt
of about $400,000 when comblned Hlth the approval of an expanded
state affalrs program. The Executlve Commlttee Hill recelve recomi
mendatlons to control? and reallocate expendltures to 1mplement the
state affalrs program and at the same time avold the deflclt. A
larger budget deflclt 1n flscal 1993794 could occur 15 calendar year
1992 sales. upon whlch next year's dues are based, are lower than
orlglnally estlmated. To antlelpate thls. Board members will be
contacted 1n early October for an estlmate of 1992 sales. Th1: Will
make better plannlng posslble for flscal 1993794. The prellmlnary
budget for flscal 1993794 Will be prepared on the assumptlon that
expenses will be reduced to accommodate about onsihalf of the fore*
casted deficit, the other onsihalf m be made up from reserves. 1:
15 hoped there Will be some 1ncreased 1nterest 1ncome whlch would be
helpful. Speclflc recommendatlons Will be recelved at the October
meetlng of the Executlve Commlttee. In Vlew of the indefinite posti
ponement of the T.V. ad program, and the contemplated reductlon of
the prlnt ad program, the ChemCAP speclal assessment 1n December Will
be reduced to approxlmately onsihalf of the orlglnally approved 40
percent level to reflect the actual forecaster! communlcatlons ex*
penses. 1: 15 planned that thls Will be the last speclal assessment,
Since the June dues mun“; for flscal 1993794 would be adjusted upi
ward accordlngly, to reflect the permanent expanslon of the publlc
relatlons effort, 1nclud1ng speclal lssue advertlslng whlch would be
at a substantlally reduced level from prevlous ad expendltures. Th1:
mumg, whlch may be looked at as bemg the sum of the dues plus the
speclal assessment, would see a decllne from 140 percent to approxy
mately 125 percent of the prevlous dues base.
a
Beard 3 report from Membershlp Commlttee Chalman Caldwell concernlng
membershlp retentlon and recrultment. The commlttee was requested to
contlnue the development of 1:: proposed plan but defer actlon untll
the economlc envlronment was more propltlous.
Chalman Fernandez then sollclted help from the Board members In con*
tactlng the followlng companles, who have reslgned for flnanclal reasons:
cm 037994
2194
The Ansul Company; Arsynco, Inc.; Carstab Corporatlon; Cllmax
Molybdenum Company; Reynolds Metals Company, Chemlcal Dlvlslon;
and Publlcker Industrles Inc. Volunteers have already been
obtalned for Chevron Chemlcal Company, Glyco Inc., and Sun
Chemlcal Corporatlon, Chemlcals Group.
TREASURER'S upon
Mr. aeman's report 15 attached as Exhibit E. Addltlonally, he advlsed
that the request for an estlmate of calendar year 1992 sales will go out the
flrst week 1n October. Responses by October 31 would be appreclated.
ASSOCIATION ACTIVITIES
Report of the Presldent
e
CMA'S offlcers have met mm the EPA Admlnlstrator. Mrs. Gorsuch
and her key staff to develop a dlalogue between EPA and the
chemlcal 1ndustry. Issues dlscussed have been those of hlgh
priority, e.g., Superfund, siting problems, and clean air. ms,
cusslons of current lssues Hill contlnue. At the next meetlng
these will 1nclude protocols for the negotlatlon of settlements
of waste slte Situations under Superfund and the 1ncluslon by
EPA of mnmg sltes 1n Superfund payouts. Agaln, the Board mem*
bars were requested to be supportlve of EPA 1n publlc comments
and also to 1nv1te EPA personnel to tour chemlcal plants to en*
hance thelr understandlng of the 1ndustry. Meanwhlle a program
15 planned whlch Hill 1nvolve Visits of deslgnated EPA representai
tlves to selected facilities.
a
Mr. Roland advlsed of the formatlon of a Steerlng Task Group, a
New Chemlcals Task Group, and an Exlstlng Chemlcals Task Group by
the Chemlcal Regulatlons Advlsory Comnlttee; an Alr Regulatlons
Task Group by the Envlronmental Management Commlttee; and a Task
Group on Hazard Communlcatlons and a Task Group on State Actlvltles
by the Dccupatlonal Safety and Health Commlttee.
e
Attentlon was 1nv1ted m EEC'S restrlctlons on the confldentlallty
of 1dent1ty of substances, Exhibit F.
a
Mr. Roland presented the proposed program on methylenedlanlllne.
0N MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1: was
VOTED: To approve the program on methylene*
dianlllne mum as descrlbed 1n Exhlblt G.
(by . Internatlonal Trade
Mr. Johnstone's report, attached as Exhlblt a, supplements the
background paper, Exhibit 1, prevlously dlstrlbuted.
cm 037995
2195
Report of Technlcal Dlrector
Dr. Cox's report 15 attached as Exhlblt J.
(:17 Report of General Counsel
NlEElEKD MATERIAL REDACTED
Report of Dlrtctor of Government Relatlons
Mr. Stover's report 15 attached as Exhibit L.
Report of Dlrector of Communlcatlons
Mr. Wllson's report 15 attached as Exhibit M.
Bruce M. Barackman
Vice presmenpsecretary
4
Certlfled correct:
Willlam G. Slmeral
Chalman of the Board
cm 037995
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
of the
ENERGY COMMITTEE REPORT
TO THE cm 13mm: OF DIRECTORS
August 30, 1992
EXHIBIT A
Tbs Cma Energy Commlttee focused 1:5 efforts on developmg
support for leglslatlve notlon 1n FT 91/92. Th1: actlvlty
wlll'contlnue m requlre close attentlon Since leglslatlon on
complex lssues 15 rarely coapleted durlng one sesslon of
Congress. Progress on energy Issues was, however, unusually
ponderous thls year because the budget and other economc
Issues were given hlgher priority. The Reagan Admlnlstratlon
1n1tlated a pollcy of greater rellance on market forces to
detemlne fuel cholaes and to some extent. energy prlees and
supplies. The Energy Commlttee also 1n1tlated some posltlve
steps toward energy regulatory refom.
cm Energy Commlttee attentlon 15 concentrated on the
followlng selected Issues:
Hatural C55 Issues
Leglslatlon m deregulate natural gas was Introduced and cm
remalns actlve In congresslonal hearlngs on thls prlorlty
issue. cm advocates total phased deregulatlon of all natural
gas wellhead celllng prlees by a certaln date and the
coordlnated removal of gas market restrlctlons such as
1ncremental prlclng, fuel Dee Act prohlhltlona and llmlted
access to gas supplies.
cm was 1dent1£1ed as a key player 1n the natural gas debste
when 1: sponsored a major study that compared and evaluated 10
studles on natural gas deregulatlon. The analysls prepared by
Foster Assoclates 1nd1cated that the more comprehenslve
studles agree mm CMA...5 Vlew that substantlal economc
beneflts to the natlon would result from phased total
deregulatlon of natural gas.
Strong cm communlcatlon efforts
publlclzed the results of the study through a press
conference. Capltal mil brleflngs for congresslonal staff and
support of lobbylng actlvltles.
The total FT 91/92 budget for Energy Commlttee research and
consultlng projects was $40,000. Actual expendltures totaled
$43,314 and are detalled 1n Sectlon XII. The research and
consultlng budget for FT 92/93 15 $30,000.
The total FT 91/92 budget for outslde legal counsel was
$39,500. Actual expendltures totaled $1,500. The budget for
Emergency Preparedness
Unnecessary leglslatlon for standby petroleum price and
allocatlon controls was defeated. cm advocates maxlmum
rellance n market forces 1n the event of a petroleum supply
dlsruptlon.
cm 037997
2
Energy T11«»
cm auccaaafully opposed «a 011 Import fee and new energy
taxes;
In our new, any tax or 635 would randar aha v.5.
1ndustry uncompetltlve lataraacloaally aad dlaeore latarfual
Competltlon. ..
Fual P00 and Cogaaaratloa
cm aueeeeefully aupporcad tha DaparCaaae of Energy afforca m
alapllfy aad radaca tha burdaa of rafulacloaa by removal of
uajuatlfled obataelaa for patleloaara aaeklag azaapeloaa from
fual Gas Act prohlbltloaa.
Energy eoaaarvatloa
cm foraatallad uaaaeaaaary aad eouatarproduetlTa energy
eoaaarvatloa ataadarda 'for exlatlag laduatrlal bulldlaqa
propoaad by tha Amerlcan Soelaty of Saatlag. Kafrlgaratlag aad
Alr~Condltloalag Eaglneera (ASBIAS).
cm malatalna a fomal proeedura for maabar eompaalaa m
raport to DOE oa aaargy eoaaarvatloa prograaa. cm mambera,
03 the average, laeraaaad aaargy productlvlty by 24.2x la 1991
compared to 1972. CMA was the first trade aaaoelatloa m
aatabllah aa aaargy eoaaarvatloa goal 13027 for 1935. This
V33 53 Importaat factor la convlnclng DOE to recommend chat
laduatry aatabllah targata Voluntarlly.
cm names
3
emlMAttT 0F MEMBER pnmcrpnmu
Member 1nvolvement. 1n the regular Energy Commlttee bualneaa
meetlng", Opan Energy laauea Brleflng" and th« mg (157189
Energy Conaervatlon Reportlng Prograa V33 as follow“:
CoaalttE":
Tank Group and Work Group aaetlnga
1,575 workday“
Workday partlclpatlon by laauaa:
Energy Commlttee 1511 laau357
242
Ga“ and Utility Regulatlon"
37
Emergency Plannlng and Tax“‘
25
Data Reportlng
11
Fuel Use Act Implementatlon
3
1002
Open Energy Iaauaa Brleflng" (3Meet1ng'7
Energy Conaervatlon
TOTAL
Reportlng
152
3,923
5,551 Workday“
At 230 worklng day“ per year,membercom1tment
equlvalent to 24.5 year“.
was
am
am 037999
r
Exhlblt A
Supplement
REMARKS TD cm 13mm: 017 unmamns
by James D. Beatty
Chalman. Energy commlttee
August 30, 1992
Good mornlng. My Energy Commlttee report 15 a m: llke a good news, bad news
story. The good news has already happened 1n the year just completed; the bad
news 1: waiting to happen 1n 1933. And 1: may 15 we relax our efforts durlng
the current year.
Last year I optlmlstlcally tltled ay report "New Horlzons", antlclpatlng that
we had reached a major turnlng polnt 1n federal energy pollcy. That we could
correct the excesses of the past and 1n partlcular the overregulatlon of the
Carter years and the Elva part Natlonal Energy Act of 1979. That we could
move from supply regulatlon and demand restrlctlon to supply stlmulatlon
through free market prlclng, knowlng that further galns 1n energy conservatlon
and fuel swltchlng and most Importantly market stablllty and predlctablllty
would follow. That optimism was based on the electlon of Ronald Raagan mm
his free market energy platform. 1: 15 useful to revlew two parts of the
energy plank of the 1980 Bepubllcan platform.
"In order m 1ncrease domestlc productlon of energy, Républlcans
[we] advocate the decontrol of the price at the wellhead of 011 and
gas....We also belleve that market restrlctlons on the use of
natural gas should be ellmlnated.
"Republlcans [we] understand that a free market based on the
collectlve priorities and judgments of 1nd1v1dual consumers will
efflclently allocate the energy supplies to thelr most mghly Valued
users.
The Presldent has dellvered on many of his energy pledges. The Energy
Commlttee llkes to trunk that we have helped over the past year.
last year we identified two major ltems for our energy agenda:
Natural gas deregulatlon, and
Elimination of 1nequ1table federal allocatlon schemes for the
dlstrlbutlon of crude 011 under the Emergency Preparedness Allocatlon Act.
For Emergency Preparedness, we prepared recommendatlons and testlfled before
Congress and lobbled for no mu to replace the explred EPAA. Whlle these
efforts dldn't convlnce Congress that a mm was not necessary, we belleve
they dld help to relnforce Presldent Reagan's resolve that no mm was
needed. Although Congress passed the Standby Petroleum Allocatlon Act, the
Presldent vetoed that mm and 1n a remarkable turnaround the Senate sustalned
the Veto after passlng the SPAA by a Vote of as m 7.
I also reported Significant reductlons 1n the regulatory burden of the Power
Plant and Industrlal Fuel Use Act and thls year I can agaln report even
further galns. These regulatlons were one of those identified for Vice
Presldent Bush's Regulatory Reform Task Force.
(:sz 037990
2
In March Presldent Reagan ended any chance of Congresslonal actlon on the
deregulatlon of natural gas when he announced that he would not seek
leglslatlon 1n 1932. mule consumer actlvlsts and other opponents of
deregulatlon ballad the Presldent's announcement as a major Victory most
observers. recognlzed 1: as a postponement not a solutlon m the problems of
the Natural Gas Pollcy Act and the publlc debate has contlnued.
The Energy Commlttee recognlzed that the debate, partlcularly as reported by
the press, was not golng 1n our.d1rectlon. The exaggerated clalms of the
consumer actlvlsts and other opponents of decontrol were conslstently galnlng
headllnes whlle more ratlonal analyses were belng 1gnored. The Energy
Commlttee commlssloned Foster Assoclates, a natlonally recognlzed natural gas
authorlty and consultant, to compare and analyze ten recent studles of natural
gas deregulatlon that Varled wldely 1n thelr findings on the unpact of
decontrol. As you would suspect, the concluslons of each study supported the
Vlews of the authors.
Foster found two studles decldedly more comprehenslve and reallstlc
assessments of total phased decontrol. These were by the Department of Energy
and Standard 011 of Indlana.
Conversely, Foster found three studles predlcted "exaggerated and
unsupportable Eleld price projectlons" and hence contrlbuted llttle m a
constructlve analysls of the decontrol issue. In March we held a press
conference to release the Foster study and we followed that mm a
Congresslonal staff brleflng. Both events were well attended. Just last
month Representatlve Dannemeyer from Callfornla quoted from our study 1n the
current hearlngs before the House Fossll and Synthetlc Fuels Subcomlttee.
In 1991 our energy conservatlon resumed 1:5 upward progress by clunblng to
24.22, 2.12 better than 1980. Th1: 15 partlcularly encouraglng 1n llght of
the stagnant economy. Our Voluntary goal of :02 appears well Hlthln reach.
1: 15 also of 1nterest to examlne how our raw energy consumptlon has changed
Since 1972. Th1: table reflects raw energy usage as reported by our member
companles. 1: has not been corrected for productlon changes. Significant
reductlons have been made 1n fuel 011 and natural gas consumptlon.
Surprlslngly coal use 15 actually down sllghtly and electrlclty 15 up
substantlally.
I'm afrald
the answer 15 Washlngton. Th1: 15 the bad news. Last year we had two major
lssues, thls year we have three:
Natural gas decontrol contlnues.
Emergency preparedness Is 1n 3 state of remlsslon, and
The newcomer 15, of courSE, energy taxes.
cm 037991
I
1992/93 GOALS AND owacmvgs
Let's examlne our plans and goals for each of Che major lssues.
First, natural gas deregulatlon.
The chemlcal 1ndustry consumes over two
trllllon cublc feet of natural gas annually whlch 15 more than 10% of the
total Unlted States consumptlon and about 25% of the v.5. 1ndustrlal use.
1993 15 our last chance for leglslatlon to be enacted to replace the NGPA
before 1:: partlal decontrol occurs on January 1, 1935. The Admlnlstratlon
and Congress will be reluctant to address natural gas 1n 1934, a presldentlal
electlon year. Furthermore, our worst case rlsk 15 no longer just "no
actlon"; 1: 15 an extended NGFA. Our baslc posltlon on deregulatlon 15 that
she NGPA be amended to provlde for:
Smooch and predlctable phase up of all natural gas wellhead Ceiling
prices to market clearlng levels.
Free market access for all consumers, pipellnes, and dlstrlbutors to all
types of natural gas supplles.
A coordlnated removal of supply and demand restralnts Includmg the
repeal of the 1ndustrlal sectlons of the Fuel Use Act and 1ncremental
prlclng.
In order to make Significant progress over the comlng months 1n the
deregulatlon debate, He must address 1n detall four areas of controversy.
F1rst...the timing of "old" gas decontrol. The 1nterstate pipellnes,
dlstrlbutlon companles, and some predomlnantly 1nterstate consumers are
reluctant to give up natural gas access and blddlng advantages that they have
under the NGFA. Many are Hllllng m decontrol old gas, but not slmultaneously
Hlth new gas.
Second...1s the problem of producer/plpellne contracts. The 1nterstate
pipelines are qulte concerned about Imprudent contracts that they have Signed,
partlcularly after the NGPA was enacted, that contaln price escalator
clauses. In theory these clauses, upon decontrol, would Increase the price of
gas paid by these pipelines beyond market clearlng levels. The pipelines want
leglslated protectlon to prevent thls posslblllty.
Th1rd...1s a wlndfall proflts tax. Such a tax 15 a dlstlnct polltlcal
possibility as a compromlse to consumer actlvlst 1nterests and as a source of
added federal revenue whlch may be partlcularly entlclng m 3 Congress faclng
contlnued hugh budget deflclts. We are concerned that full decontrol mm an
excesslve wlndfall proflts tax could well be worse than the NGPA.
CMA 037992
Fourtnﬁm th« severlty of price fly up upon deregulatlon. Most people's
Vlews on total decontrol of natural gas are dlrectly related to thelr
perceptlon of the magnltude of the price 1ncrease that will result. The
consumer actlvlsts have effectlvely convlnced the publlc that decontrol Hill
devastate.the1r personal budgets. The press contlnues to provlde front page
coverage to these clalms whlle more moderate projectlons by more knowledgeable
partles are deemed not newsworthy.
Most unportant of all, 1n our effort to obtaln deregulatlon of natural gas, 15
strong support by Presldent Reagan. We Will urge the Admlnlstratlon to
1ntroduce a deregulatlon mu early 1n 1993 or to endorse a mu 1ntroduced by
a proponent of decontrol. Our commlttee's actlon plan 1ncludes:
Analyze the natlonal supply/demand outlook for the natlon and the
chemlcal 1ndustry beyond 1935.
Contlnue to present the cm posltlon before Congress and the
Admlnlstratlon.
Develop and dlstrlbute news releases and communlcatlons packages.
Fom coalltlons to develop reasonable compromlses on the major lssues.
The 1mportance of the colsmunlcatlons effort cannot be underestlmated. Let me
alts a few examples of the headllne grabblng clalms of our opposltlon:
Frank McKee41n1ted Steelworkers of Amerlca
"Natural gas decontrol would more than double current utility mm:
for consumers and destroy an estlmated three million Jobs 1n an
already staggerlng economy. Mllllons of Amerlcans would have to
choose between eatlng and freezlng."
The AFLich Executlve Councll has called gas decontrol "the most
expenslve short term Income transfer program 1n the hlstory of the
natlon...one that takes from consumers and gives to the energy
companles."
Dr. Mark Cooper of the Consumer Energy Councll of Amerlca, "A5
deregulatlon drlves up fuel prices and 1nflatlon, domlnos will fall
throughout the economy: output will decrease; unemployment will
1ncrease; productlvlty Hill decllne; gas supplies will decrease; and
equlty Will be undemmed." The Councll estlmates that over the
next three years deregulatlon would cost Amerlcan workers 300,000 to
450,000 jobs and $70 bllllon 1n lost wages whlle raising llvlng
costs shazply and cuttlng up m 522 bllllon from the Gross Natlonal
Product.
Armed mm flgures llke these and mm 1nflated estlmates that total
decontrol could ralse the average household heatlng cost from 5500
m 51,000 per heatlng season, many cltlzen actlon organlzatlons have
mounted effectlve grass roots campalgns m flght decontrol. In
MllwaukEE, 450 senlor cltlzens confronted Senator Kasten then
undeclded on the lssue to Sign a pledge agalnst dec ntr 1. Chantlng
"yes or no, yes or no", the demonstrators demanded that Kasten
declare ms posltlon on accelerated decontrol publlcly. When Kasten
declared his opposltlon to decontrol, the demonstrators presented
mm mm a wrltten pledge; Kasten Signed the pledge.
CMA 037993
*Sjusc a few weeks ago Che Comnlctee for Economlc Development and the
Conservatlon Foundatlon testlfled for Immedlate deregulatlon before the House
Fossll and Synthetlc Fuels Subcommlttee. They also recognlzed the burden thls
would be on the poor and recommended that 53777 bllllon be allocated for thelr
needs. The Consumer Federatlon of Amerlca 1mmedlately labeled ch's proposal
as "utter'cynlclsm".
Whlle we do not antlclpate that emergency plannlng Will be a high proflle
lssue durlng 1933, we must be prepared for that posslblllty. The 1mpact of
adverse actlon could be substantlal. In the past the chemlcal 1ndustry has
not recelved equltable treatment under crude 011 and petroleum product
allocatlon controls. partlcularly for feedstock. The chemlcal 1ndustry uses
about 5.7x of the natlon's llquld petroleum for feedstock: and an addltlonal
Desplte the Presldentlal Veto of the SPAA, Congresslonal
1nterest 1n leglslatlon contlnues. It's dlfflcult to feel secure about the
Mlddle East.
Presldent Reagan recently Signed 1nto law leglslatlon requlrlng that the
Strateglc Petroleum Reserve 5111 rate be malntalned at 220,000 barrels per day
and preferably at a target rate of 300,000. Th1: leglslatlon also requlres
that the Admlnlstratlon develop a new dlstrlbutlon plan for the sPR. CMA
contlnues to support nnmg the sPR and the utlllzatlon of market forces to
properly dlstrlbute avaliable supplles durlng a crude oll dlsruptlon.
Our commlttee actlon steps 1nclude:
Monltor emerglng state allocatlon plans to evaluate the need for
preemptlve federal leglslatlon.
Monltor Congresslonal actlvlty whlch could lead to SPAA type leglslatlve
proposals 1n 1933.
Work Hlth the Department of Energy to establlsh an equltable government
plan for dlstrlbutlon of the sPR oll 1n an emergency.
Develop background analysls and communlcatlons recommendatlon to achleve
support for the chemlcal 1ndustry's contrlbutlon to the natlonal economy.
In June of thls year when both the Senate and House were conslderlng an energy
tax as a posslble part of the recently passed tax b111, we lobbled agalnst any
energy tax as 1nflatlonary, 1nequ1table, and economlcally damaglng through the
1ncrease 1: would cause to the 1nternatlonal balance of trade deflclt. In
letters that we sent to Senator Wallop and Representatlve sharp we opposed all
energy tax proposals and offered total phased deregulatlon of natural gas as
an alternate whlch would 1ncrease federal revenues Within the exlstlng tax
structure. Many observers rate the posslblllty of an energy tax hlgh for 1933.
The tax posslbllltles are shown on thls sllde. Our analysls of the Varlous
alternate?. whlch 15 5:111 1n development, ranks them from least 1mpact m
greatest 1mpact for a glven federal revenue gain as follows: an 1ncreased
exclse tax on gasollne, a BTU exclse tax, an ad Valorum tax, and flnally an
1mported and domestlc crude 011 or reflnery tax. For perspectlve, the threat
g°st to the chemlcal 1ndustry of 3 10d per gallon gasollne tax 1ncrease would
be qulte modest at just a few mllllon dollars annually. That tax would ralse
510 B. Conversely, a $3 per barrel fee on 1mported and domestlc crude oll
1nclud1ng unported petroleum products would cost the 1ndustry nearly one
bllllon annually.
CMA 037994
Our commlttee plan 1ncludes: analyze llkely tax proposals and develop
1nfomatlon to lobby agalnst them, partlcularly the more burdensome energy
taxes; analyze the effects of a wlndfall proflts exclse tax on natural gas
mm total phased deregulatlon of gas; develop coalltlons to contlnue to
oppose burdensome energy taxes, and; develop feedstock exemptlon language
should an energy tax become 1nev1table.
There are secondary Issues that He Will also address durlng thls year. mule
the Fuel Use Act regulatlons have been reduced dramatlcally, they 5:111
exlst. We Will contlnue to follow mm partlcular Interest the cogeneratlon
exemptlon and related actlvlty 1n the Federal Energy Regulatory Commlsslon and
the lltlgatlon 1n the courts on full avolded cost sale of electrlc power by
1ndustrlal cogenerators to utilities and 1nterconnectlon mm utilities.
Also. He Will be evaluatlng the Admlnlstratlon's proposal to reogranlze the
Department of Energy whlch Will be relntroduced 1n 1933. We Will examlne the
DOE budget for Industry related portlons that could be easlly ellmlnated.1n an
effort to support federal budget reductlons. A5 thls sllde shows, energy 1m:
15 best accompllshed by 1ndustry. The captlon reads, "We've done 1: boss!
We've learned to get the gasollne out of gasohol!" Flnally, He Will contlnue
to work mm the Amerlcan Soclety of Heatlng, Refrlgeratlon, and Alr
Condltlonlng Englneers to further 1mprove thelr proposed standards for heatlng
and Ventllatlng systems 1n exlstlng cosmerclal and 1ndustrlal bulldlngs.
ORGANIZATIONAL AND RESOURCE NEEDS
A substantlal majorlty of our resources will be focused on...natural gas
deregulatlon, energy taxes, and emergency plannlng.
Last year He requested and recelved substantlally 1ncreased support from the
legal and communlcatlons staffs.
A major effort will be requlred to enact leglslatlon m achleve total phased
deregulatlon of natural gas. Th1: effort will requlre: an addltlonal
1ncrease 1n communlcatlon staff support, approxlmately 550,000 for a
consultant study analyzlng the natural gas supply/demand sltuatlon through
1990 under the NGPA and 1:5 unpact on the chemlcal 1ndustry (I mlght note that
our current budget for thls year 1: 530.0007, and an 1ncrease 1n government
relatlons staff support.
In concluslon. we estlmate that the Energy Commlttee accounts for between 2
and 2 1/22 of the cm budget. Conslderlng the 1mportance and potentlal unpact
on the 1ndustry of these energy Issues, we belleve that our cost/beneflt ratlo
15 qulte good.
We appreclate and Hill contlnue to need high level commltment of member
companles*through your contrlbutlon of hlgh level managerlal talent.
CMA
CMA 037995
EXHIBIT B
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
of the
ENGINEERING ADVISORY COMMITTEE REPORT
TO THE
CMA BOARD OF DIRECTORS
August 30, 1992
Major Accompllshments
Durlng flscal
199171992~
the commlttee:
Contlnued to provlde major coat savlngs m the Industry
through partlclpatlon 1n developaent of englneerlng codes
and standards.
Revlewed and subaltted reeoaaendatlons on proposals to
aaend approxlmately 1~ann englneerlng codes and standards,
and on rslated lssues.
e
Surveyed aeaber coapanles on thelr support of educatlon.
Frlaary purposes were to forestall a future shortage of
quallfled englneers and sclentlsts, whleh would eventually
lead to severe probleas for all aeaber coapanles, and to
forestall curtallment of 1nst1tutlonal research and 1:5
beneflt m 1ndustry.
e
conducted a mum mghly successful forua on Computers for
Process Control.
These foruas provlde a unlque opportunlty
to assess the contlnued rapid growth 1n dloltal technology.
Th1: growth has a aajor favorable lapaet on the cost of
operatlng chealeal plants.
Company People Worklng on Commlttee Programs
a
Number 7 77 (Includlng the commlttee, 1:5 task groups, and
CMA rsprssentatlves under 1:: purvlew.)
a
Work Tear Xqulvalency 7 5
Cost Savlngs to Industry
e
Estlmate 7 Over 3100 Bllllon a year
CMA
CMA 037995
EXHIBIT B
Supplement
REMARKS TD CMA BOARD 017 ummmns
by Robert L. Klausmeler
Chalman, Englneerlng Advlsory Commlttee
August 30, 1992
1ntroductlon
The Englneerlng Advlsory Commlttee 15 concerned mm all
englneerlng aspects of chemlcal manufacturlng. We do collec*
tlvely what would be dlfflcult to achleve 1nd1v1dually. Our
scope 1ncludes deslgn, constructlon, operatlon and malntenance.
Whlle there are many other englneerlng organlzatlons,
thls cm Commlttee 15 the only one devoted strlctly to chemlcal
1ndustry beneflts.
If we don't speak for the chemlcal 1ndustry,
who will?
Most of our effort focuses on developmg natlonal codes
and standards whlch are acceptable to the chemlcal 1ndustry.
Beyond that we sponsor forums on subjects of common 1nterest,
for example computerlzed process control systems. Recently
we added 1mproved support of educatlon to our objectlves.
In last year's report, I talked about our work on piping,
lectrlcal 1nstallatlon5. Vessels. pumps, hollers, and rellef
systems and the codes and standards governlng them. Then I
presented an overvlew of the prlvate sector standards system;
1:: organlzatlon and crltlcal 1mportance to the chemlcal
1ndustry.
Today, I Will dlscuss 1n detall two subjects I mentloned
brlefly last year so that you can have a better understandlng
of the scope of thls commlttee. Then I Will descrlbe our
latest Venture.
Englneers can be accused of bemg detall people. We
are, someone must be. A chemlcal plant 15 made up of mllllons
of detalls, Vessels. pipes, wlrlng, motors, pumps, Valves,
1nsulatlon, tubes. welds, nuts and bolts. Each must do
what 1: 15 1ntended to do. And practlcally all of them are
speclfled by one or more natlonal standards,
1: 15 a good
thlng they are.
If not, every company would have to do for
1tself what has been done collectlvely. Can you afford that?
Early 1n your careers, most of you were probably equally
concerned Hlth detalls.
Remember 7 the detalls are 5:111
there. and each one must be handled properly. Where we can,
let's do 1: together.
CMA 037997
Electrlcal Codes and Standards
In past reports, you have heard about the work of our
Electrlcal Codes & Standards Task Group to protect our 1ndustry's
1nterest by keeplng the Natlonal Electrlcal Code clean. We
have mllllons of dollars at stake. The code 15 amended and
relssued on a three year cycle, followlng Very 1nvolved pro*
cedures. There are roughly 25m proposals for change to the
1991 code for relssue 1n 1934. of thesa. response 15 approi
prlate on perhaps 15m, and 1ntense effort on 150. Unfortunately,
we cannot rest on our Laurels. Once we have successfully
defended favorable amendments and reslsted those whlch are
detrlmental, the whole process starts again. Many of the Sam
lssues arlse year after year, code after code. 1: 15 not
feaslble for member companles to face thls task 1nd1v1dually.
A concerted effort 1: essentlal.
As far back as 1959, the code has requlred on electrlc
motors:
A remote controller dlsconnectlng means capable of
bemg locked 1n the open posltlon, or
A manual sultch located Hlthln 51gb: of a motor to
dlsconnect the motor from 1:: source of supply.
A pushbutton and remote magnetlc sultch would be common
to elther.1nstallatlon.
In other words. lock 1: out 1n 3
motor control center or dlsconnect 1: at the pump 1n slght
of the operator. Note the underllned word 7 or.
1: has been
propsed beforE, 15 proposed, and probably will be proposed
agaln to change that or to and.
Sounds Simple, just one more
sultch.
A typlcal pump 1nstallatlon 1n a hazardous area conslsts
of a motor. pump, oll unmersed pushbutton 7 stralghtforward minimum essentlal.
Remote from the pump 15 a motor control center. Push
the button at the pump and a magnetlc sultch 1n the control
center opens. Also remote, 15 a lockable sultch separate
from the magnetlc sultch.
The magnetlc sultch 15 rated for the motor slze and can
be opened safely under load.
Slnce these are usually located
1n areas havlng less demandlng hazard classlflcatlons, they
have less
strlngent and less expenslve deslgn requlrements.
Now conslder the same pump 1nstallatlon mm a safety
sultch for each motor.
If the proposed change were adopted,
thls 15 what would be requlred: hazard rated sultch 7 price
5900 7 1nstallatlon cost $300 7 total 51100 per motor.
CMA 037999
Not only expenslve, but potentlally unsafe.
If thls sultch
at the pump 1: opened under load, 1: Hill are.
If not horse*
power ra...ted. 1: could explode.
I Will leave 1: up to you to estlmate the cost of thls
unnecessary compllcatlon on each new motor 1nstalled. Retroi
actlve appllcatlon has not"been proposed, but some Zealot may
try 1: at any tune. Retroflt would cost more llke $1600 per
motor and a modest slze chemlcal plant will have upward of
1000 such motors.
process Control Systems
Now let's leave the code turnplke, try a dlfferent road,
and explore a new area: Computerlzed Process Control Systems.
1: 15 new, excltlng and underdeveloped. Sounds llke a
descrlptlon of parts of the Napa Valley.
But llke the Valley,
1: has 1:: pltfalls. Fortunately, we have good guldes 7 our
Process Control Task Group.
on May 13 and 14, the T&sk Group conducted 1:: mum
Process Computer Users Forum. Half a day was devoted to
Dlstrlbuted Control Systems. Unlque m thls sesslon were
presentatlons by nonicompany member people, a professor and
a journal edltor.
Th1: was followed by dlscusslons of Human/Control System/
Process Interface. Retroflt of Exlstlng Plants, and Integrated
Control Systems.
Integrated Control Systems are those whlch
. comblne dlstrlbuted regulatory control systems and management
1nfomatlon systems.
We have heard the term Dlstrlbuted Control Systems for
the last several years.
1: you are llke me, you had an 1dea
of what was meant but were a llttle Vague.
In a Simplified dlstrlbuted system, there 15 somethlng
m be controlled. for 1nstance a Valve. A Signal 15 sent.
Th1: 1nd1cates the current condltlon.
1: 15 recelved by the
controller. where 1: 15 analyzed, and, 15 necessary, correctlve
actlon 1: taken to open, close or adjust the Valve. Early
analog devlces were elementary by today's digital standards.
The modern controller 1: much smarter.
However. 1: nelther sees all nor knows all.
Some jobs
are too compllcated for 1: to handle. A hlgher capaclty
central process computer will monltor many parameters as well
as signals to and from the controllers.
1: can make far more
complex calculatlons conslderlng 1nput from many sources.
CMA 037999
1: can tell the controller what actlon to take and may even
reprogram 1: to react properly to changed condltlons. Equally
1mportant, the maln computer can be equipped Hlth a Volumlnous
and rellable long term memory.
1: can store process data; then,
1n case of an upset, 1: can retrleve and analyze the data to
lsolate the cause.
In an 1ntegrated system, the 1nformatlon
15 also avaliable to busmess computers to process management
1nfomatlon.
Fortunately for us humans, even the central computer
needs to be monltored and occaslonally corrected.
So there
are 5:111 operators, but they are operatlng mm far more
powerful tools than avaliable before.
The tam Dlstrlbuted 15 used to descrlbe the dlstrlbutlon
of functlons m 1nd1v1dual controllers Versus control dlrectly
by a central unit.
These systems are no't only cost effectlve, they look
good too.
The last half day of the forum was devoted to open
dlscusslon and a Crlthue of the prevlous sesslons. Seventyseven people from 33 companles attended. Th1: compares to
79 at the 1980 forum. Evaluatlon sheets showed overwhelmlng
support for another forum. Comments Here conslstently favorable.
We also provlded papers for those who couldn't attend.
The Englneerlng Advlsory Commlttee revlewed thls Task
Group's charter and supports another forum planned for May
1934a Th1: 15 subject to revlew and evaluatlon early next
year. The exploslon, a better word 15 detonatlon, of control
technology 15 more than 1nd1v1dual companles can handle. Cost
efflclency dlctates cooperatlon.
Aid to Educatlon
what should the 1ndustry do about the depletlon of
educatlonal faculty and facllltles? We don't know, but we
declded 1: would be wlse m detemlne where we are before
we declde where to go.
We started mm a survey through englneerlng contacts
to 61nd out just how and how much our 1ndustry 15 commlttlng
to support of educatlon. Analysls of returns 15 underway.
Unfortunately, only 39 companles responded.
However. those
39 1nd1cated contrlbutlons of over $49 mllllon, an unpresslve
number. We trunk thls can be used by the Communlcatlons
Commlttee as an lmage unprover. We belleve that dlstrlbutlon
of a summary report of the analysls will encourage 1ncreased
support. Though the level of support by 1nd1v1dual companles
CMA 037900
V
will be lcePt confldentlal. foreslghted companles can be
recognlzed as leaders. Laggards should recognlze thelr shorti
comlngs and be motlvated to catch up. No company 15 so small
or so poor that 1: cannot do 1:: share. We Will keep you
1nfomed and make our recommendatlons later.
rnst Effectlveness
Ours 15 a low cost operatlon as far as am 15 concerned.
commlttee slze 15 just large enough to provlde a good
cross sectlon. We have only Elva Task Groups. They have
speclflc asslgnments and hold comparatlvely few meetlngs. Our
demands on CMA staff, facilities, and dollars are small. But
we do a job whlch must be done, Either Hlthln or outslde of
CMA. Separate company programs to do what we do would cost
far more than ours. You are gettlng a good return on your
1nvestment.
Our
Our work 15 prophylactlc, not postnatal. We prevent
rather than react. Many regulatlons, partlcularly DSHA'S, are
based on natlonal standards. Under "new federallsm", standards
prepared by the prlvate sector will be used 1n more regulatlons,
both federal and state. We'd better be damned sure they say
what we want them to say.
1: 15 better for us to speak up,
otherwlse the fabrlcators, regulators, and muons Will be free
to look after thelr own narrow 1nterests.
Standards carry legal connotatlons beyond mere regulatlon.
There Will be accldents. flres, exploslons, and releases no
matter how hard we try to prevent them.
In fact and 1n court,
we must be certaln that we have followed accepted 1ndustry
practlce. Codes and standards equal good practlce. Let's do
the job together. We can't afford to stand alone.
Now here's what you have all been waiting for.
CMA
CMA 037901
I
EXHIBIT c
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
GOVERNMENT RELATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
TO THE
CMA BOARD OF DIRECTORS
August 30, 1992
Early sectlons of the 'report of the Government Relatlons
commlttee are devoted to 1:5 role. membershlp and organlzatlon.
Th commlttee 15 the focal polnt of the coordlnated leglslatlve
actlvltles of the chemlcal 1ndustry 1n Washlngton.
Through
th cooperatlve efforts of a mgnly professlonal communlty of
Washlngton representatlves, the Government Relatlons Commlttee
15 able to provlde a servlce whlch offers to cm and 1:5 vary
ous program elements:
monltorlng of key lssues,’
advlce durlng pollcy maklng;
leglslatlve strategy development and polltlcal
analysls;
threat leglslatlve communlcatlons programs.
where the unportance of lssues have dlctated the appolntm nt of a Commlttee Keyman or fomatlon of a task group, the
staff executhe/support functlon 15 provlded by a member of
the professlonal staff of the CMA Government Relatlons Depart*
ment.
Speclal Actlvltles
Sectlon IVof the report descrlbes the CMA Erleflng Break?
fast and the CHEMICAL mum Luncheon serles, both almed at
promotlng 1nteractlon between 1ndustry Washlngton representatlves,
encouraglng partlclpatlon and keeplng them abreast of develop*
ments on current lssues. The CHEMICAL mum also serves to
enhance the reputatlon and recognltlon of CMA 1n the Natlon's
Capltal, Since 1: features addresses by respected and wldelykn wn publlc flgures.
Last Year's Dbjectlves and Progress
These are detalled 1n Sectlon v, Hlth much emphasls belng
plac d on widening partlclpatlon and sharpenlng 1nternal proce*
dures .
I
flew 037902
Issues
Sectlon v1 provldes a serles of reports by Keymen and task
group chalrmen on unportant lssues whlch occupy the attentlon of
the Government Relatlons Commlttee durlng thls year.
These
lssues represent the work product on whlch thls commlttee prof
Vldes overall leglslatlve *senllce and leadershlp for cm ad?
Vocacy.
Leglslatlvel Tlmetable and Priorities
Sectlon VIXlS a chart whlch represents a new approach by
the Government Relatlons Commlttee 1n identification and prior*
1tlzatlon of key lssues. The Commlttee belleves that thls pro*
cess should be completed and formallzed for all of the CMA pro*
gram.
1: Will be noted that the Commlttee belleves that consmn
uent communlcatlon Will be especlally approprlate and productlve
1n the lssues of the Clean Alr Act. the Clean Water Act, Natural
Gas Deregulatlon, and Superfund/CERCLA. Slmllarly, leglslatlve/
communlcatlons priorities seem to colnclde 1n the areas of the
Clean Alr Act, the Clean Water Act, Natural Gas Deregulatlon, the
Dccupatlonal Safety and Health Act, and Superfund/CERCLA.
Commlttee Plans and Dbjectlves
Sectlon VIII explalns three areas where "domg better" would
seem llkely to produce 1mportant dlvldends for the chemlcal in,
dustry: linking leglslatlve and communlcatlons efforts more
dlrectly, more effectlve coalltlonlng, and the focuslng of con*
stltuent 1nfluence.
In the area of communlcatlons and publlc understandlng, the
Commlttee 15 forming a task group to:
create more 1nteractlon between communlcatlons
professlonals and government relatlons professlonals;
1dentlfy priorities;
set t1metables.*
develop new "messages";
target communlcatlons programs to Congresslonal
dlstrlcts.
mm regard to coalltlons, the Government Relatlons Commlttee
plans to dlscourage creatlon of new organlzatlons to handle €07
511mm efforts on iSSuES, and at the same time, to encourage more
2
CMA 037903
I
r
attentlon to the coalltlonlng process 1n the larger umbrella
busmess organlzatlons.
In order to promote a sharper focus on constltuent comm
nlcatlons Hlth speclflc key Congressmen, the Government Rely
tlons Commlttee has begun efforts to:
1dentlfy leglslatlve lssues whlch best lend them?
selves m constltuent communlcatlons;
1dentlfy communlcatlons lssues from a 51mm
perspectlve;
survey the constltuent contacts Capabilities of
member companles;
1dentlfy Congresslonal commlttees whlch handle the
most 1mportant mus;
develop more detalled home dlstrlct data on
Congressmen'who serve on key commlttees;
develop a Votlng record evaluatlon of key mem*
bers of Congress.
cm
cm 037904
EXHIBIT a
supplement
REMARKS TD CMA BOARD 017 DIRECTORS
BY ROBERT E. HAMPTON. CHAIRMAN
GOVERNMENT RELATIONS COMMITTEE
AUGUST 30, 1992
I am pleased to have thls opportunlty to present the annual GRC report.
x would llke to call your attentlon m the wrltten report, prevlously d15*
trlbuted to you, partlcularly Sectlon v, 1991 7 92 Commlttee Dbjectlves
and Progress; Sectlon v1, Keymen's Report on the Substantlve Issues; and
Sectlon v11, Major Leglslatlve Issues Tlmetables and Priorities as I Will
not cover these matters 1n my presentatlon.
Last year we reported on the unpllcatlons of the polltlcal changes
brought about by the electlon of Presldent Reagan and a Republlcan Senate
and how these changes mlght 1mpa.ct on the chemlcal 1ndustry, effect the role
of the SEC and our leglslatlve efforts. We mentloned that the economlc
lssues, taxes. budget cuts, and Soclal Securlty Reform would domlnate the
time and attentlon of both the Admlnlstratlon and Congress and that we dld
not expect major envlronmental or health leglslatlon to pass 1n 1931. In
addltlon. we stated that these lssues would be put off untll 1992, brlnglng
them 1nto conslderatlon durlng an electlon year, thus maklng 1: even more
dlfflcult to achleve substantlal amendments. We also stated that thls dld
not mean that efforts should not be made to amend key leglslatlon, but we
had to be reallstlc about our chances for success. We polnted out that
Significant leglslatlon mlght be set Esme and no flnal actlon taken untll
1993.
Th1: now appears to be the case.
We are greatly dlsappolnted that the seemlngly favorable polltlcal
makeup of the Admlnlstratlon and Congress dld not produce results; but
what has happened was not totally unexpected.
However. we are contlnulng to work for comprehenslve changes 1n 3
number of laws, and the organlzatlonal objectlves we achleved last year
place us 1n 3 much stronger posltlon to advocate change than 1n the past.
By a more systematlc focus on strategy and plannlng, 1mprov1ng communlcatlons
and coordlnatlon Within the CMA structure and contlnulng efforts to educate
members of Congress and Admlnlstratlon offlclals mm wellireasoned posltlons
and good backup data, posltlons on the lssues have been changlng for the
better.
1: 15 agalnst thls background that the SEC crlthued 1:5 actlvltles and
developed our objectlves for the comlng year. The major questlon we asked
ourselves was how can we do better and what are the thlngs we have to do to
be better.
cm 037905
We examlned the Varlous factors that unpact upon the leglslatlve
process and the roles Varlous 1nst1tutlons play 1n 1nfluenc1ng that process:
The medla, publlc understandlng of the chemlcal
1ndustry and medla 1nfluence on Congress.
Busmess coalltlons 1n Washlngton.
cm, the SEC 1tself, Washlngton Representatlves
and the 1ndustry.
The chemlcal 1ndustry and 1:5 polltlcal clout.
Chemlcal 1ndustry lssues and prlorltles.
I would llke to cover just two of those factors:
First, one of the essentlal lngredlents 1n settlng the scene for
achlevlng leglslatlve success 15~ "communlcatlons." Why 15 1: when our
1ndustry advocates changes 1n leglslatlon that the publlc percelves 1:
as an attempt to gut a law that protects them and the envlronment and that
our sole reason for wantlng change 15 cost. Why does thls mlsconceptlon
carry over to the Congress whlch gives us sympathy and understandlng, but
out of fear of publlc opinion will not Vote to support responslble changes
that are well justlfled on the merlts and by good sclence. The maln
reason 15 the smgle message perslstently carrled by the medla, 1nfluenced
by envlronmental groups, that mdusmyadvocated changes gut the law, and
that 1ndustry wants change only to save money. Th1: overslmpllfled, easytoistate message, substantlated by a few lsolated examples from the past,
but presented as a generallzatlon, has created a total mlsconceptlon of
the chemlcal 1ndustry.
To accompllsh our 1ndustry's leglslatlve goals, the SEC feels 1: 15
essentlal that we take the necessary actlons to clear up these mlsconi
ceptlons by better coordlnatlon of our communlcatlons program mm our
leglslatlve goals.
We Will 1dentlfy those lssues of unportance, prioritize them, set
goals and tlmetables. 35515: 1n developmg communlcatlons that are effec*
tlve 1n the leglslatlve arena, and create a new sense of dlrectlon and
urgency.
The SEC Will take actlon jolntly Hlth the Conmunlcatlons Commlttee
to deal Hlth the lssues. We have Voted to form a task group on leglsi
lathe/communlcatlons to oversee these actlvltles; and through thls group,
target communlcatlons*related projects.
The second essentlal lngredlent 15 what He referred to 1n our report
as £°£us. The chemlcal 1ndustry has conslderable polltlcal clout us you
want to call 1: man, but we are not sure that thls clout 15 bemg used
1n the most effectlve way. Th1: 15 a sensltlve area and one we are he57
cm 037905
cant m dlscuss because 1: could be mlslntezpreted as 1nterfer1ng mm
Th1: 15 not the case. We are all 1n the same
boat on these lssues even though leglslatlon may 1mpact dlfferently on
1nd1v1dual companles. We are all affected by the passage of leglslatlon
that calls for further regulatlon of our 1ndustry...so we elther smk or
swlm together. What He Will be trylng to do 15 prudently threat and
utilize thls clout m accompllsh four leglslatlve objectlves.
1nternal company busmess.
we plan a number of actlons to gather 1nfomatlon on just where
the 1ndustry stands and the detalls of these actlvltles are spelled out
1n Sectlon VIII of our report. We Will need your personal commltment and
support 1n thls effort.
Another sensltlve area I would llke m mentlon 15 cm 1nvolvement 1n
thls process. There are tunes where certaln hlghilevel contacts must be
made Within the Admlnlstratlon or mm the Congresslonal Leadershlp.
some cases thls already has been doney. 1: 15 our opinion that we can
only achleve Credlblllty at that level by representatlon from the top.
The hlred guns can go only so far...then the system calls for brlnglng 1n
the mg guns on speclflc lssues where an approprlate relatlonshlp exlsts.
Th1: 1nvolvement Will be requested through the proper cm channels and
here agaln we ask you commltment.
we belleve the commlttee plans and objectlves for 92 and 93 of 1m7
provlng communlcatlons, worklng 1n coalltlons and focuslng on 1nfluence
energetlcally pursued will go a long way toward enhanclng our chances of
achlevlng our leglslatlve goals.
A LOOK AT THE mem
t
As far as the Executlve Branch 15 concerned, we are belng llstened
m and we have not been faced mm a flow of new regulatlons. Deregulatlon
has not produced the changes we had hoped for but there has been luvprovement.
Th1: takes tune. The reform movement has lost some momentum as EFA and,
m a lesser degree, OSHA have baen under polltlcal attack. Th1: 15 apparent
1n leglslatlon bemg consldered by Congress 1n that a number of amendments
to Varlous laws are deslgned to force EPA 1nto taklng actlon or handcufflng
them where they have used thelr dlscretlon on lssues the envlronmentallsts
hold dear.
Actlon by the Admlnlstratlon 1n lobbylng for changes 1n envlronmental
leglslatlon 15 1nv151ble. The Whlte House 15 keenly aware that publlc
opinion holds llttle sympathy for amendments to envlronmental, health and
safety laws and 15 keeplng a low proflle on the issue.
The bot.tom llne 15 that we cannot expect too much Executlve Branch
support on envlronmental leglslatlon at thls tune. Also, we should be
alert to the Signals that the whlte House 15 concerned about 1:5 lmage on
cm 037907
envlronmental lssues, and 1n order to neutrallze thls lssue we can expect
some admlnlstratlve actlon (regulatory) to show thelr concern for those
lssues.
As far as Congress 15 concerned, the Votes 1n the House on 17mm, and
Clean Alr 1n the House and Senate causes great concern. Many months of
work mm the congresslonal commlttees 1n hammerlng out compromlses have
easlly gone down to defeat on the floor of Congress because of the emotlonal
and polltlcal cllmate that exlsts today.
what we are seemg today 15 a number of battles 1n 3 war where the
outcome 15 5:111 1n doubt.
At thls stage we do not expect any major envlronmental leglslatlon to
pass thls sesslon of Congress.
(Look at forecast on speclflc lssues 1n
Sectlon v17 Th1: forecast could change as the politics of the lssues are
so complex 1: 15 difficult to give a preclse readlng. However, there Will
be llttle time to deal Hlth these lssues between the tune Congress returns
September a and adjourns the flr'st week 1n October. We are contlnulng to
work for comprehenslve and constructlve changes 1n the laws belng consldered
and thls pressure 15 havlng the effect of extendlng the debate.
What about 1993 7 1994? We belleve most of these lssues Will be
addressed 1n 1933. What Will be the polltlcal Situation at that time? The
outcome of the 1992 electlons Hill determlne the character of the next
Congress. There are as many oplnlons on what the character mlght be as there
are people who make predlctlons. We aren't quallfled m predlct but some
experts do not feel the change will be all that Significant. Republlcans are
predlcted to malntaln control of the Senate and Will not loose a Significant
number of seats 1n the House.
A key factor 1n 1993 7 1994 impacting on leglslatlon Will be the shape
of the economy and the jobs issue. Since 1994 15 a Presldentlal electlon year,
what takes place 1n 1993 Hill detemlne the lssues of the 1994 electlon, and
what Congress and the Admlnlstratlon belleves to be publlc opinion will blas
conslderatlon of envlronmental, health and safety leglslatlon. Th1: 15 one
of the reasons we belleve our communlcatlons efforts are cruclal.
We cannot be sure of the answers to those questlons at thls tune. We
can only be sure that under any set of polltlcal clrcumstances our goals will
not be easy to attaln, we are confldent that the approach we have developed
to deal Hlth these lssues will serve us well under any clrcumstances and 1n
the long haul lead to success.
We Will not be dlsappolnted 15 leglslatlon 15 not passed durlng thls
Congress because 1n most cases what 15 belng consldered 15 worse than,
or llttle better than, what now exlsts. To say that the situation will
only get worse next year could be 1ntezpreted as meanlng we do not have
much confldence 1n our posltlons and we should not accept that.
cm
cm 037909
I
EXHIBIT u
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
of the
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE REPORT
:9 the
cm 13mm: OF DIRECTORS
August. 30, 1992
Major Accompllshments
The Envlronmental Management Commlttee's (Ema) 1991~1992 year was full, dlverand productlve. The Commlttee effectlvely managed envlronmental lssues
before regulatory agencles, Congress, and federal courts. In addltlon, a
greater commltment of resources was made to 55515: 1n the rapldly expandlng
State Affalrs program. A summary of the Commlttee's major accompllshments 15
set forth 1n Chapter x. These accompllshments 1nclude the followlng:
0
After three years of extenslve negotlatlons, cm, EPA, and other
partles concluded a settlement agreement on 37 of 54 lssues ralsed
as part of lltlgatlon challenglng the Natlonal Pollutant Dlscharge
Ellmlnatlon System wmsy unplementlng regulatlons. The settlement
agreement 15 hlghly favorable to 1ndustry and will result 1n effectlve
control of our dlscharges m the natlon's waters.
0
Over the last year and a half, cm slanaged a cooperatlve study mm
EPA to ascertaln the removal efflclency of toxlc organlc pollutants
by exlstlng chemlcal 1ndustry blologlcal treatment facilities. The
consultants report of the study concluded that well deslgned and
operated blologlcal treatment, 1n*place, 15 dolng an excellent job 1n
removlng toxlc organlc pollutants from chemlcal wastewaters (1.e.,
over as percent removal). CMA developed a radlo show and TV news
feature about the report and has conducted seven medla tours on water.
0
The EMC contlnued a major resouree'lntenslve effort, 1n conjunctlon
mm the Government Relatlons CommlttEE, to have the Clean Alr Aet
amended. Amendments are necessary to obtaln rellef from bureaucratlc
and costunecsacmve requlrements presently 1n the Act. At thls tune
1: 15 dlfflcult to predlct when and 1n what form such amendments will
be enacted. The EMC worked Hlth the Communlcatlons Commlttee to pro*
vme spokesman for clean alr medla tours 1n 24 cltles.
0
cm has been extenslvely 1nvolved 1n dlscusslons mm EPA and other
concerned partles over EPA'S unplementlng regulatlons for Subpart
c of RCRA concernlng hazardous wastes. Over the past year, the EMC'S
efforts have begun to bear frult. EPA now recognlzes the chemlcal
1ndustry...s concern that the regulatory system not be a dlslncentlve
m 1nternal reuse and recycllng of wastes, and Hill revlse 1:5 dennk
tlon of solld waste to essentlally exclude such wastes from the
hazardous waste system. And, EPA has revlsed the mlxture rule by
redeflnlng whlch wastewater streams are hazardous, thereby removlng
1395 chemlcal 1ndustry surface luvpoundments from the system.
Industry's approach will result 1n effectlve reductlon 1n hazardous
waste and more effectlve use of byproducts 1n waste streams.
cm 037909
Research and Consultlng
Th« total M 91/92 budget for EMC research and consultlng projects was $597,900.
Actual expendltures totaled $593,957 and are detalled on pages 9 through 13.
The research and consultlng budget for m 92/93 15 $300,000.
Program Outlook
Although 1: mlght seem that there should be a trend toward decreaslng actlvlty
1n the envlronmental arena. thls 15 not the case. EPA staff are slowly
adoptlng some of the messages espoused by top Agency admlnlstrators. Our
contlnued 1nput to EPA 15 requlred to guarantee progress. Durlng thls tune
that 15 generally Vlewed as store cooperatlve than adversarlal, all levels at
the Agency are requestlng 1ndustry 1nput to thelr prograsts. A posltlve
response by 1ndustry Hill requlre even store stember company and staff resources
than 1n the past. Our contlnued regulatory efforts can result 1n more costeffectlve regulatlons for 1ndustry that can also result 1n 3 substantlally
1mproved envlronment.
The EMC Will be challenged durlng the next year to respond to the EPA and to
adequately support leglslatlve and judlclal lssues as they arlse. We Will
need resources to respond to posslble amendments to the Clean Alr Act, Clean
Water Act, Resource Conservatlon and Recovery Act, and the Safe Drlnklng
water Act. There may be lltlgatlon related to the Comprehenslve Envlronmental
Response, Compensatlon and Liability Act (Superfund) and many famlllar
envlronmental lssues will become unportant at the state level. We Will there*
fore be 1n 3 contlnuous process of settlng priorities and concentratlng our
resources where they will have the greatest llkellhood of positive unpact on
the 1ndustry.
cm
1117
cm 037911
r
EXHIBIT u
Supplem nt
REMARKS TD CMA BOARD 017 DIRECTORS
by W111 u. Carpenter
Chalrman. Envlronmental Management Commlttee
August 30, 1992
Earller thls year, 1n 3 conversatlon Hlth the Chalrman of the Board,
I consented that 1n the envlronmental arena. 3 perfect score 15 zero, and
« food score 15 a small negatlve number. It's probably not that bad, but
Vc aust run hard to stay 1n the same place.
The Envlronmental Management Commlttee has several key messages to
brlng to the Board, and x appreclate thls opportunlty to address the
envlronmental lssues that 1mpact the chemlcal 1ndustry.
Last year, t..."yne Jaeschke, the EMC Chalman, made several obseri
Vatlons about the‘year ahead to thls group. . .the year we have just
completed. 315 remarks are a useful polnt of departure.
ma identified nlne lssues we felt would requlre the major part of
our resources. Those lssues 1ncludEd, of courSE, the CAA leglslatlve
report. The water permlts program and related water regulatlon were
second, followed by RCEA and Superfund lssues. Ve then llsted several
"cr0557cutt1ng" lssues common to all or several of the above. Regulatory
reform. good sclence, economlc conslderatlon of regulatlon, and the state
lssues were the major cr0557cutt1ng lssues. In retrospect, the ma
members and cm staffers can be pleased mm thelr crystal ball. mm
20/20 hlndslght, we don't need to change one. The next part of my
presentatlon 15 to answer the obvlous questlon:..."lf you were so smart
about predictlng the lssues, what dld you do about them?"
First, let me say that the EMC was adequately resourced by the
B ard. We had good support from the member companles, and the staff
dellvered for us tune and tune again. We managed our resources well.
Our outslde expendltures were 99% of budget. 704% was expanded as
planned. The remalnder was shlfted to more urgent, hlgher prlorlty
projects that surfaced durlng the year, as we constantly monltored our
resources to ensure maxlmum effectlveness.
There were a number of accompllshments that are worthwhlle dlscusslng.
Ve selected 51x that are among the most significant. As one analyzes these
results. we can Very nlcely use them to give you a better inslght 1nto how
me does 1:: work, 1n addltlon to the type of results obtalned.
t
of the 51x results reported here, two have to do mm water; one
vltb all“; and three mm solld waste. . .one RCRA and two Superfund.
cm 037912
Natlonal Pollutant Dlscharge Elimination System Regulatlons ummsquner permltsy
After three years of extenslve negotlatlons, cm, EPA, and other
partles have concluded a settlement agreement on 37 of 54 lssues ralsed
as part of lltlgatlon challenglng the mums unplementlng regulatlons.
The settlement agreement 15 hlghly favorable to 1ndustry. The key polnts
are as follows;
Permlt appllcatlon requlrements have been reduced.
There 15 a substantlal 1ncrease 1n flexlblllty for calculatlng more
favorable numerlcal permit llmltatlons whlch should result 1n
reduced treatment costs.
Procedures for challenglng permlt condltlons Will be more
reasonable. Th1: should reduce the cost and manpower needed to
secure acceptable flnal permit condltlons; and
Dlschargers Will have 1ncreased flexlblllty 1n avoiding noncompllance penaltles when Violations occur as a result of
1nadvertent or unknown clrcumstances.
Fourteen of the reaulnlng lssues have been set Esme for lltlgatlon
later durlng approprlate permittlng cases. As a result, the actual
number of lssues m be brlefed Hlth the Court of Appeals has been llmlted
m a reasonable number. thereby achlevlng our secondary objectlve of
reduclng cost of managlng the issue.
CMA/EPA mvewlan: Study
Over the last year and a half, cm and EPA jolntly managed 3 c07
operatlve flvejolant study to ascertaln the removal efflclency of toxlc
organlc pollutants by exlstlng chemlcal 1ndustry blologlcal treatmmt
facilities. In a recent CMA consultants report on the study, 1: was
found that current 1n7plant blologlcal treatment 15 dolng an excellent
job 1n removlng toxlc organlc pollutants from cheatlcal waste waters.
Over 95 percent removal of toxlcs was achleved. The study provldes EPA
mm the best longitem data on the removal efflclency of blologlcal
treatment for toxlc organlcs and should play a key role 1n EPA'S develop*
ment of effluent guldellnes for the organlc, plastlc, and synthetlc
chemlcal 1ndustry. We hope EPA will use thls data to conclude that no
addltlonal technology beyond current wellideslgned and operated blologlcal
treatment 15 needed to deflne EAT (best avaliable control technology
economlcally achlevabley. Much of our effort thls next year will be
devoted to thls task.
Clean Alr Act Amendments
As you all know, a lot of EMC'S effort over the last two and a half
years has been dlrected at Clean Alr Act amendments. mm the Government
Relatlons CommlttEE, we have been pursulng a strategy to obtaln rellef
fr In current bureaucratlc constralnts 1n the act and m obtaln more
costieffectlve clean alr programs.
cm 037913
Many of the reforms we are seeklng have been adopted at one time or
another by the House commlttee. These 1nclude better PSD and nonfattalnment
program! and streamllned 51? procedures. 1: 15 1mportant that we get a mu
through Hlth these 1mprovements. At the same tune, there are problems,
prlnclpally 1n the hazardous alr pollutants area. The antlilndustry Coalltlon
bss demonstrated far greater unpact than 1ndustry or the admlnlstratlon had
antlclpated. 1: 15 clear that thls part of the Act will be changed whenever
amendments are passed. Ve are worklng hard now to make sure these changes
1nclude needed 1mprovements ankle protectlng our 1ndustry's 1nterests.
RCRA Implementlng Regulatlons
cm over the past several years has been extenslvely 1nvolved 1n
dlscusslons Hlth EPA and other concerned partles over EPA'S unplementlng
regulatlons for Subpart c of RCRA concernlng hazardous wastes. Several
of the dlscusslons were. 1n fact. settlement negotlatlons of outstandlng
judlclal challenges to the prior admlnlstratlon's unplementlng regulatlons
that were technlcally 1ncorrect or that 1mposed 1napproprlately strlngent
requlrements that offered no commensurate envlronmental beneflts. Over
the past year, the EMC'S efforts have begun to bear some Significant frults.
One example 15 EPA'S recognltlon of the chemlcal 1ndustry's number one
concern that the present regulatory system 1napproprlately created a d15*
incentlve for the chemlcal 1ndustry m 1nternally reuse and recycle wastes.
EPA 15 now flnallzlng a proposed revlslon of 1:5 deflnltlon of solld waste
that Hill rectlfy thls concern by essentlally excludlng 1ndustry 1nternal
reuse and recycllng of wastes from the hazardous waste system. A second
example 15 the agency's revlslon of the mlxture rule by redeflnlng whlch
wastewater streams.are hazardous. Th1: modlflcatlon removes 1395 chemlcal
1ndustry surface 1mpoundments from the hazardous waste system, 945 of whlch
would probably have needed replacement.
Hazardous Waste Slte Management Plan
Pursuant to dlrectlons from the Board that the hazardous waste
response center threat 1:: efforts to asslstance for member companles 1n
dlsposal slte cleanup, the task group has managed the preparatlon and
publlcatlon thls spring of the deflnltlve work on waste slte sunagement
entltled. "A Hazardous Waste Slte Management Plan." The document has
been deslgned to am 1n the development of slte management plans for
clean up of sltes and to 55515: 1n mitigating any potentlal or actual
adverse envlronmental effects. The slte management plan 15 bemg used by
member companles and federal and state agencles as a crltlcal management
tool 1n resolvlng health and/or envlronmental problems created by hazardous
wastes 1n inactive dlsposal sltes.
Superfund Implementatlon
As you are all well aware. Superfund and 1:5 1mplementatlon 15 an
exceedlngly hlgh prlorlty lssue for the EMC and the chemlcal 1ndustry.
The resource commltment we have made to date 1n order to obtaln a
reasonable 1mplementatlon of Superfund has deflnltely been a costeffectlve declslon. In thls regard, EPA has just .recently promulgated
cm 037914
74mg flnal revlslons m the Natlonal Contlngency Plan. These are con*
515mm mm the posltlons that CMA has advocated on thls matter. The
key polnts are:
No anal standard for cleanup between fund flnanced Versus prlvately
flnanced cleanup;
Fund flnanced cleanups should generally be tled to the prlorlty 115:
of sltes; and
A flexlble standard as to how clean a slte would have to be under a
Superfund cleanup 1n1tlatlve.
Although several Significant lssues 5:111 remaln m be addressed
(1.e., mmng slte cleanup fundlng, state Superfund preenptlon, tort law
and waste and stud1ES7: the 1ndustry advocacy effort has resulted thus
far 1n acre reasonable lapleaentatlon by EPA than flrst 1nd1cated.
After thls brlef descrlptlon of 51x key lssues, 1 would llke m use
a few slldes to give you an 1n51ght 1nto the aanageaent of lssues by the
EMC. Ve will focus on areas qf impact, resources, and results.
In each sllde. the lssues are llsted on the left. In the flrst
511dE, the area of unpact 15 1nd1cated on the rlght. The areas llsted
are obvlous. However. 1: 15 of 1nterest that the EMC mm cm staff
moves effectlvely across these four areas mm a large number of lssues.
As you can see from the Slide, frequently our efforts have 1mpact 1n
more than one of these four.
In the next sllde. the same 51x lssues are llsted agaln to show the
key resources used for each of the 51x. DE courSE, CMA staff 15 1nvolved
1n every actlon, but the comparatlve effort Varles from lssue to issue.
In the flnal two sildeS. we focus on the bottom llne. Justlflcatlons
are arbltrarlly broken 1nto four listings. Once agaln, we can wln 1n
more than one way. As an Esme, we must 1mprove on expresslng our
actlons 1n terms of posltlve unpact on the envlronment. For 1nstance,
the Biplant study shows that procedures already 1n place have reduced
pollutants 1n water by hundreds of thousands of tons over that expected
by EPA. The 1ndustry and the admlnlstratlon are 1nterested 1n costeffectlve regulatlon. . .as well we should, but the publlc wants to hear
what happens to the envlronment. Ve must provlde that 1nformatlon for
our own 1nterest. and learn to do 1: routlnely. . .1n our formal comments
on leglslatlon and regulatlon, 1n our casual dlscusslons mm the 1nfluence
people, as well as our Chemcap program.
Now. let us look ahead. vsmg the prevlous format, I Will dlscuss
the leglslatlve area flrst. In the comlng year, we can expect amendments
to RCRA and the ch, whlch are already underway. Before the next annual
report. the leglslatlve effort on CESCLA Will be underway, vlth the CAA
5:111 uncertaln.
cm 037915
mm the makeﬂzp and mood of Congress presently and 1n the next
year, we antlelpate we will be swlnglng upstream. leen the other option
of smkmg, however, we shall contlnue to paddle llke hell. mm good
technlcal support and pollcy guldance through EMC, we expect to reach our
goal of c.05tieffect1VE. envlronmentally responslble regulatlons.
The regulatory arena Will be actlve for Vlrtually every major
envlronmental law, as Wayne Jaeschke reported last year. 1: was
demonstrated that 1: takes more effort and resources to partlclpate 1n 3
cooperatlve regulatory atmosphere than 1: does to object 1n the hostlle
envlronment that exlsted two years ago. Now 15 our chance to be part of
the solutlon.
The EMC trunks there are several watchouts durlng the comlng year.
Some are 155ne'related. . .others are crossdzuttlng. Let me 115: some of
those.
Groundwater...lt's hard to predlct when a groundwater 1nc1dent Will be
used agalnst 1ndustry the way PCB'S, Love Canal and others dld to
catalyze TSCA and Superfund.
A crossdzuttlng lssue 15 EMC members' 1mpresslon of dlsturblng
congresslonal attltudes on a key subject. The banner of good laws and
regulatlons based on good sclence does not have the input on Congress
that 1: once dld. Some members of Congress are Claiming that thls 15
merely an excuse to delay 1mplementatlon of regulatlons. Although the
Government Relatlons group 15 responslble for our congresslonal arena,
the EMC bases 1:: efforts on the underlylng prlnclple of good sclence.
We must meet thls challenge successfully.
In addltlon to the federal iSSuES, state lssues will demand effort
from EMC members. Hlth Superfund and dlsposal sltes belng major examples.
Natlonal Amblent A11“ Quallty Standards ¢NAAst...ozone revlslted for 502,
Superfund Implementatlon...wlll be a contlnulng area of effort. Some
luvportant lssues Will be 1n litigation, 1nclud1ng lltlgatlon 1n whlch CMA
may partlclpate. Many cleanups Will be underway and some completed.
Data will need to be complled for future efforts to sunset the fund.
17 Asslstance to state groups on state leglslatlon; 27 tort law.
mm a substantlally reduced budget, we must select our priorities
carefully, and revlew our progress and needs to determlne how to organlze
and threat our efforts. We must 1mprove 1n our coordlnatlon Hlth other
cm groups. Such technlques as helsiconferences, fewer (only needed)
people at meetlngs, ellmlnatlon of some meetlngs, and better coordlnatlon
of meetlngs Will be necessary.
1
Our requests to you as a result of the wrltten report whlch you have
recelved and thls presentatlon are:
I
cm 037915
An understandlng of the lssues end appreclatlon of the Situations.
An 1n51ght 1nto the longiterm nature of our work, whether leglslatlve,
regulatory, or what. The effort extends over several years, and the
need.for adequate resources 1n the had years 15 there. When our
resources are llmlted, we become more vulnerable to poorly concelved
and executed governmental programs. We have to stay actlve 1n such
tunes and carefully set our priorities.
Recognltlon that envlronmental lssues' actlvltles Hill contlnue to
accelerate through 1934.
Perhaps most 1mportantly, we ask for your support 1n maintaining
member company partlclpatlon at an effectlve level. We'll try to
1mprove thelr effectlveness. Durlng these tough tunes, we ask that
you 61nd the ways to make these outstandlng people avaliable. 1 can
assure you that you get no better return for your money anywhere.
For costieffectlve regulatory management, ma efforts are good for
you.
cm
CMA 037917
EXHIBIT E
TREASURER...S upon
~nn~ *lfnrihB Eridlng August 31. 1992
Th1: report will be prepared and dlstrlbuted followlng the end of
the month.
For your reference, the followlng 15 provlded:
e
The approved budget and fundlng for the flscal year beglnnlng
June 1, 1992 and endlng Bay 31, 1933.
The approved budget for the separately funded Blamedlcal and
Envlronmental Speclal Program area.
I
1
CMA 037919
r
CHEMICAL MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
APPROVED BUDGET AND FUNDING mu THE
Flscal Year Beginning June 1, 1992 and endlng May 31, 1993
mmmmm:
Membershlp Dues
Investment Revenue
Revenue from or (Dues Support
my Speclal Program Areas
Communlcatlons Program
Assessment 9 40%
Use of Communlcatlon Program Reserves
Meetlngs (net of expensesy
TOTAL ummmm
1992793
Annual Budget
1, Dan, nun
3,745, 500
20,500
209, nun
$14, 909, 300
DIRECT woman ACTIVITIES:
General Counsel
Government Relatlons
Internatlonal Trade Actlvltles
State Actlvltles Program
Chemlcal Industry's Communlcatlons Program
Technlcal Admlnlstratlon
Health. Safety 5 Chemlcal Regulatlons
Envlronmental Actlvltles
Dlstrlbutlon. Energy, Enqlneerlng
Chemtrec
Dutslde Legal Fees
Dutslde Consultlng
TOTAL
971,700
900.700
245.100
251.200
4, 953, gun
273.500
790.400
737.500
450.100
542.500
1, sun, nun
795, nun
$12,512, ann
UNALLDCATED MANAGEMENT AND GENERAL
svppom ACTIVITIES:
Executlve Department
Accountlng £1 Busmess Servlces
Printing, Dlstrlbutlon, Computer 5
Infomatlon Servlces
1
513,100
492,200
TOTAL
TOTAL EXPENSES
$14, 909, 300
AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL
147
1
v
Note:
The above budget and fundlng does not 1nclude the actlvltles
and 14 staff of the separately funded Blamedlcal and Envlroni
mental Speclal Programs area.
CMA 037919
1
I
CHEMICAL MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
APPROVED BUDGET AND FUNDING mu
BIOMEDICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIAL woman:
Flscal Year Beginning June 1, 1992 and endlng May 31, 1993
1992793
Annual Budget
mmmmm:
Overhead Relmbursement
Investment Revenue
Publlcatlon Sales
TOTAL ummmm
530, nun
225, nun
1, nun
955, nun
403,400
95,900
10,000
1,500
500
1, nun
22,000
25,000
90,900
49,100
74,500
EXPENSES:
Salarles 51 Related Expense
Employee Beneflts
Travel & Staff Training
Dues. Subscrlptlons £1 Publlcatlons
Dutslde Prlntlng 2 Graphlcs
Meetlngs £1 Workshops
Dlrect Postage, Frelght £1 Dellvery
Dlrect Supplles 51 General Offlce
Taxes 51 Insurance
Rent 51 Occupancy
Common Cost Expenses
Admlnlstratlve Support:
Technlcal Admlnlstratlon
Accountlng
Offlce of General Counsel
Prlntlng £1 Dlstrlbutlon
32,300
27,300
75,000
40,100
TOTAL
933,500
EXCESS REVENUE mxpmsgsy
AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL
14
:'I
I
CMA 037920
EXHIBIT F
EEC'S Restrlctlons on Confldentlallty
of Identlty of Substances
The CMA/SDCMA Internatlonal Affalrs Group's EEC Compllance Task Group has
1nvested much effort recently to detemlne the extent of 1nterest of member
companles and thelr European afflllates 1n changlng EEC'S rules for the
above. These rules comprlse expllclt denlal of such confldentlallty 1n the
EEC 1nventory of exlstlng substances, and a 11mm of three years of
confldentlallty for non7"dangeroue" new substances notlfled by manufacturers
or unporters to member states. At lAG's request, the Trade Representatlve's
Offlce asked EEC formally for resolutlon of thls potentlal trade barrler.
Th1: 1nterest 15 1ntense, but concentrated 1n only a few slanufacturers of
lliaddltlves. photographlc £11m, and speclalty polymers. Some Europeans are
supportlve, but trunk the effort futllE, glven the EEC'S admlnlstratlve
11mm: and the potentlal difficulties 1n amendlng the ...57 Dlrectlve, Sixth
Amendment.
SC's formal response to ISO 15 overdue and may not arrlve untll early or"
mldiseptember. If the response proves negatlve, as hlnted 1nformally, ms
Hill llkely recommend haltlng thls effort and advlse the concerned companles
m devlse thelr best 1nd1v1dual strategles.
ACTION REQUIRED
None, for 1nfomatlon only.
CMA
CMA 037921
EXHIBIT G
pnoposm woman on METHYLEN'EDIANILINE
Problem/Background:
on Juna 1, 1979, the Interagency Testlng
Commlttee 1mm recosnended that 4,4'7Methylene"
dlanlllne mm.» be consldered for testlng for
1:: toxlc effects on human health and the envy
ronment. The ITC recommended the followlng
studles: carclnogenlclty, mutagenlclty, teratoi
genlclty, other chronlc effects, envlronmental
effects and epldemlology. In a December 31,
1931, filing Hlth the v.5. Dlstrlct Court, EPA
1nd1cated that they expected to make a declslon
on ITC'S testlng recommendatlon on mm 1n caleni
dar year 1932. In response to the recommendatlon,
mm manufacturers asked cm to set up a program
on thls chemlcal. Accordlngly, the Speclal
Programs Dlvlslon convened an exploratory meetlng
where the group wrote a program charter and ten*
tatlve budget. The proposed charter was revlewed
and recelved favorable responses by the Speclal
Programs Advlsory Commlttee 15mm and 01A staff.
DbjecthE;
In 1:: June 1992 filing Hlth the Court, EPA re*
moved mm from 1:: 1992 schedulE. but stated 1::
1ntentlon to complete actlon on thls chemlcal by
m1d71983. The Panel will, therefore. spend the
next two months collectlng and analyzlng data 1n
order to recommend a reasonable regulatory re*
sponse to EPA.
Recommendatlon
That the Executlve Commlttee accept SPAC'S recomi
mendatlon for approval of thls program.
1
I
Money
Partlclpatlng, companles will support program ac*
tlvltles and necessary overhead charges.
:1
Company Personnel
One representatlve from each partlclpatlng company.
CMA Personnel
Th1: program, along Hlth other recently approved
programs, will requlre the addltlon of one prof
fesslonal and one support staff member to the
Speclal Programs Dlvlslon. Th1: Hill brlng the
Dlvlslon staff authorlzatlon m 13. The cost of
the two addltlonal staff members will be recovered
from the perihour program charges.
Actlon Requlred:
Approval of Recommendatlon.
CMA
CMA 037922
1
EXHIBIT 3
upon TO THE CMA 13mm: 0F DIRECTORS
0N
INTERNATIONAL TRADE ACTIVITIES
August 31, 1992
Presented by
Leo a. Johnstone
Vice Chalrman. "Phillips Petroleum Company
Internatlonal trade lssues contlnue to be an area of hlgh actlvlty.
As reported before, the current recesslon has promoted Varlous types of pro*
tectlonlsms all around the world. The GATT Ministerial meetlng m be held 1n
November Will be extremely 1mportant for settlng the dlrectlon of 1nternatlonal
trade 1n the 'BD'S. A prune ltem on the u. s. agenda for that meetlng 15 m
obtaln a recommltment to free trade as well as to complete certaln ltems left
over from the Tokyo Round. In addltlon, 1: 15 planned that the GATT agreements
be expanded 1nto servlces (such as banklng, 1nsurance, englneerlng, and con*
structlom plus an 1nvestment code and expanslon and redeflnltlon of the
generallzatlons system of preferences. Trade relatlons Hlth Europe are not
at thelr healthlest state 1n Vlew of the v.5. sanctlons regardlng the Sovlet
gas pipeline and the counterivalllng duty declslon regardlng steel 1mports
1nto the Unlted States from Europe. on the other hand, the GATT Ministerial
could not come at a more approprlate time from the standpolnt of trylng to
head off condltlons whlch could escalate 1nto trade retallatlon and a re*
enactment of the Smootiﬂawley 13111 of the 1930's whlch magnlfled and prolonged
the Great Depresslon. There are just a few ltems I would llke to touch on :97
day whlch are covered generally 1n your brleflng book, some of whlch deserve
some expanslon.
1. The petrochemlcal d15cusslons.. There have been no more
developments 1n regard to further dlscusslons mm the EEC. Although
there contlnues m be some antkdumplng actlvltles, the European
chemlcal 1ndustry appears to be more preoccupled Hlth 1nternal candy
tlons 1n seeklng means of ratlonallzlng the Significant overicapaclty
that exlsts. There has been conslderable actlvlty regardlng preparr
tlons for talks mm MexlCo, 1nclud1ng threat governmentitoigovernment,
tn settlng the stage, plus two meetlngs mm the Department of Commerce
by the panel of advlsors from a number of CMA member companles. The
advlsors that your and other CMA companles have made avaliable are mi
deed knowledgeable and experlenced and are maklng Significant contrlbui
tlons. The greatest challenge at thls tune 15 m deflne objectlves
and reach a consensus on objectlves among the advlsors and mm the
Department of Commerce. Work 15 proceedlng along these llnes and the
Internatlonal Trade Commlttee of the cm 15 actlvely pursulng thls.
The flrst meetlng Hlth the government of Mexlco has been scheduled for
sometlme 1n October. However. I made a trlp m Mexlco recently and the
task force of the Internatlonal Trade Commlttee has consldered the
matter and we are recommendlng m the Department of Commerce that the
CMA 037923
October meetlng be deferred untll sometlme after the flrst of
December when the new government of Mexlco takes offlce, 1: 15 not
felt that meetlngs prior to that tune would be productlve. The
present chaotlc economc condltlons 1n Mexlco are also a factor 1n
thls recommendatlon.
There have been no meetlngs held mm Japan although we con*
tlnue to hear that a meetlng Will be requested by them. 1: 15 also
posslble that sometlme 1n the near future He Will get a 51mllar re*
quest from Canada.
2. Competltlve assessment studles are bemg conducted by the
Internatlonal Trade Commlsslon and 1ndependently by the Department of
Commerce regardlng the v. s. petrochemlcal 1ndustry. The purpose of
these studles 15 to attempt to assess the unpact of actlons and pollcles by other governments on the competltlveness of the v. s. chemlcal
1ndustry and are significant to us 1n that they will no doubt form the
basls for the attltude of the v. 5. Government regardlng our petrochemk
cal 1ndustry 1n trade negotlatlons 1n the future. A number of companles
have been asked for input'lnto these studles and He Will hopefully be
able to see early drafts 1n order that 1naccurac1es and mlsunderstandi
lngs are not promulgated.
3. A Very Significant ltem whlch 15 comlng from Varlous three?
tlons 1nclud1ng the Industry Pollcy Advlsory Commlttee, as well as
through other channels, 15 the dangerous and 1n51dlous Vredellng proposal
bemg consldered 1n the EEC governmental system. mule most of you may
be famlllar mm the Vredellng proposal, I 61nd that some are not, so I
would llke to descrlbe 1: brlefly. Th1: proposal would be a dlrectlve
regardlng workers rlghts 1n the communlty whlch extends from EC practlce
of local 1nformatlon exchange and consultatlon to the world stage. 1:
would requlre annual dlsclosure of 1nformatlon by management to employee
representatlves and prior consultatlon Hlth labor representatlves coveri
mg major corporate worldwlde actlvltles and declslons 1nclud1ng mergers,
shlfts 1n productlon, plant closmgs and even 1ntroductlon of new tech?
nology 1nto exlstlng plants. Th1: dlrectlve 15 for companles employlng
at least 50 employees 1n EC countrles. 1: would requlre that each year
the parent 0. 5. company would submlt 1nfomatlon m the management of
1:: EC subsldlarles whlch would 1n turn provlde 1: to the local unlon
labor representatlves coverlng the parent company's worldwlde actlvltles
related to 1:5 economlc and flnanclal Situation, the posslble develop*
ment of the busmess, products and sales. 1: would 1nclude productlon
and 1nvestment programs, manufacturlng and worklng methods, 1nclud1ng
new worklng methods, technologlcal 1nnovatlons and health and safety.
The subsldlarles would be requlred to consult mm the employee repre*
sentatlves at least an days prior to any corporate declslon whlch 15
llkely to have a substantlal affect on the employees' 1nterest mm a
Vlew to reachlng agreement on the measure planned. The company must post*
pone any declslon untll the unlon opinion 15 recelved or untll the 307day
perlod has elapsed. In addltlon, employees at any other subsldlary than
the one dlrectly affected may also demand to.be consulted. The proposed
CMA 037924
I
dlrectlve also contalns provlslons under whlch the employee representai
tlve 15 authorlzed to open consultatlon mm the parent company manage*
men: under a bypass provlslon. The employee representatlve Will be
granted appeal rlghts to trlbunal or other natlonal authorltles 1n the
event a management falls to Eulflll the provlslons of the dlrectlve.
Thls, of courSE, has numerous drawbacks whlch 1nclude an extraiterrltorlal
reach glvlng muons the ability to negotlate Hlth multknauonal com?
panles on global corporate plans and at the corporate rather than the
1nd1v1dual plant level. 1: could 1nvolve submlsslon of data whlch may be
1n Violation of securltles law and 5m regulatlons, access to corporate
confldentlal or proprletary 1nformatlon and establlshlng a precedent
guaranteelng worker consultatlon on an 1nternatlonal basls.
Th1: dlrectlve 15 now before the European Parllament for a Vote
the week of September 13. The EC Commlsslon are m reconslder and proba*
bly redraft the dlrectlve for conslderatlon by the EC Councll of Mlnlsters
1n mm to late 1933. If adopted, the 1nd1v1dual member states would be
requlred to 1mplement the dlrectlve through natlonal leglslatlon.
Th1: dlrectlve has become mghly polltlcal and represents a major
prlorlty for the European Trade Confederatlon whlch has effectlvely lob?
mad for 1:. Busmess lobbylng on Vredellng 1n the v. s. 15 coordlnated
through the Natlonal Forelgh Trade Councll, the v. s. Councll for Inter*
natlonal Busmess, the n. 5. Chamber of Commerce, and the NAM. Inltlally,
the lobbylng took the form that thls proposal 1: so bad that 1: should
Simply be dlscarded. Present "15de 15 that Since some form of Vredellng
Will be adopted, lobbylng should take the tom of attemptlng m revlse the
proposal to somethlng that can be llved mm. Ivor Rlchard of Great
Britain 15 the commlsslon member who will be 1n charge of the redraftlng
and 15 the guru of the Vredellng proposal, havlng 1nher1ted thls role from
Vredellng upon the latter's retlrement. Rlchard has 1nd1cated 1n speeches
and other dlscusslons that he 15 flexlble as to the flnal form.
At the present tlme, the CMA posltlon regardlng Vredellng 15 bemg
formulated and should be forthcomlng 1n the near future. However, 1n the
meantlme I would urge you to become more famlllar mm thls proposal and
1:5 potentlally harmful effects.
CMA
CMA 037925
EXHIBIT I
INTERNATIONAL TRADE
Petrochemlcal Dlscusslons
The state of the 1nternatlonal petrochemlcal markets has caused unpre*
cedented government to government dlscusslons about petrochemlcals. Three
mums. talks were held. The Departtnent of Commerce 15 preparlng for talks
mm the Mexlcan government. One dlscusslon on petrochemlcals has occurred
between the v.5. and Japanese governments, Hlth addltlonal talks 1n prospect.
Competltlve Assesmnent Studles
The Internatlonal Trade Commlsslon 15 investigating the 1mpact of petroi
chemlcal productlon by olliproduclng natlons on the v.5. petrochemlcal 1ndustry.
Independently, the Department of Commerce 15 preparlng a competitive assess*
ment study of the v.5. petrochemlcal 1ndustry as a speclal project at the ha?
has: of Secretary Baldrlge.
Leglslatlon
The growlng concerns of the v.5. Congress about trade problems are lllus*
trated 1n Senator Danforth's mil (5. 20947. ...The Realprocal Trade and Invest?
men: Act of 1932." 1:5 provlslons may well affect trade, 1ntellectual property
~ rlghts and 1nvestment of the v.5. chemlcal 1ndustry.
Vredellng Proposal
1: 15 llkely that a dlrectlve Will be lssued 1n 1993 or 1994
Market that will affect v.5. subsldlarles operatlng there. 1: 15
Vredellng Proposal and presently contalns dlsclosure requlrements
tlons of 1nformatlon about matters affectlng employees' 1nterests
affordlng unlons consultatlve rlghts mm management.
Actlon Requlred:
None.
by the Common
called the
by corporai
as well as
For 1nfomatlon only.
CMA
CMA 037925
EXHIBIT
J
upon 0F THE TECHNICAL ummmn
Technlcal Department presentatlons:
Councll of Pollutlon Control Flnanclng Agencles
Natlonal Conference. Plttsburgh, PA.
Toplc:
Trends
1n Envlronmental Regulatlon.
e
Washlngton Center for Learnlng Alternatlves Graduate
Buslness/Government Relatlons Program, Washlngton,
Toplc:
The Chemlcal Industry and CMA'S Lobbylng
Actlvltles.
Allled Corporatlon, Morrlstown, NJ, Busmess Plannlng
and Pollutlon Control Meetlng.
Toplc:
The Envlroni
mental Regulatory Future.
Harvard School of publlc Health, Cambrldge, MA.
Toplc: cm Hazardous Waste Program.
Mayhew
Englneerlng Foundatlon Conference, Hennlker, NH.
Toplc:
A Hazardous Waste Slte Management Plan.
a
Amerlcan Petroleum Instltute's Annual Conference on
nghway Transportatlon, Hllton Head, 5:.
Toplc:
Emergency Response W and the Petroleum Industry.
e
Natlonal Councll of State Leglslature's Conference,
Chlcago, IL.
Toplc:
CHEMTREC/Hazardous Materlals.
e
Famlly Llnes R311 system, Jacksonvllle, FL.
Toplc:
Relatlonshlp Between cammm and the Rallroads.
a
Dr. Stack responded 1n a telephone 1ntervlew to
questlons on the use of benzene 1n consumer products
on a radlo program orlglnatlng 1n Denver, co.
e
As part of the ongolng nghtitoiknow radlo serles.
Dr. Langley Spurlock taped a show on the role of
research 1n protectlng people from hazardous
chemlcals.
'The Technlcal Dlrector conducted 51x TV. seven radlD,
one magazlne, and 51x newspaper 1ntervlews 1n Washlngton,
She worked
mm the Conservatlon Foundatlon Hazardous Waste Dlalogue
Group (whlch she codzhalrsy 1n revlewlng the flnal draft of
the communlty siting handbook.
one sore editing and the
CMA 037927
2
handbook Will be ready for typesettlng by early September.
She met mm the Amerlcan Chemlcal Soclety's Commlttee on
Envlronmental Improvement to revlew the flnal draft pamphlet
on acld raln.
She partlclpated 1n the flrst steerlng com?
mlttee meetlng to organlze the AAR/CMA/RPX Joint Interi
1ndustry Task Force on safe transportatlon of hazardous
materlals. and a CMA press brleflng to explaln the research
the task force will undertake.
The Technlcal Dlrector
conducted a twoiday retreat at whlch she and the Dlvlslon
Dlrectors worked on longirange plannlng for the Technlcal
Department.
Other actlvltles 1ncluded partlclpatlon 1n
orlentatlon for the new cm Commlttee ChalmEn, and a
Natlonal Cancer Instltute brleflng mm a coalltlon of other
trade assoclatlon technlcal people.
The Deputy Technlcal Dlrector had three radlo news
broadcasts"
Envlronmental Program staff conducted medla
tours 1n Denver. Colorado Sprlngs, and Pueblo, co, and 1n
Portland and Eugene, on on hazardous waste lssues.
The
cammm Dlrector conducted medla tours 1n Savannah. GA and
Jacksonvllle. FL, 1nclud1ng Elva televlslon, two radlo and
three newspaper 1ntervlews.
CHEMICAL TRANSPORTATION EMERGENCY RESPONSE CENTER (cammmcy
An agreement was Signed Hlth Texas ASM Unlverslty to
conduct seven Emergency Response Team Workshops between
September 1992 and September 199v
ursnusvnou, ENERGY AND ENGINEERING urvrsmu
Dlstrlbutlon
e
CMA opposed an Assoclatlon of Amerlcan Rallroads
(AAJU petition to the 1nterstate Commerce Commlsslon
(may to suspend the tank car compensatlon adjustment
due September 1.
The 1ncrease, due to member company
prlvate car owners/operators, 15 estlmated to be
about $50 mllllon.
The AAR also proposed that the
Commlsslon's proceedlng be reopened to revlse the
present formula, arrlved at through good faith
negotlatlons 1n 1979, whlch provldes a falr basls for
compensatlon payments.
e
Complementlng our successful efforts to change the
'Senate Verslon 15. 15937 to amend the Shipping Act of
1915, several CMA Vlews appear to have been adopted
1n 3.x. 4374, striking a reasonable balance between
carrler and shlpp r 1nterests.
Whlle passage 15 not
assured, 1: 15 llkely we...ve avolded advers
leglslai
tlon.
At the same tune. we mm the groundwork for
future leglslatlon favorable to Us exporters.
cm n3792a
B
Dlstrlbutlon Commlttee groups are worklng cooper?
tlvely wlth the CMA/AAR/RPI Task Force to unprove
...rall transportatlon safety.
Prellmlnary jolnt
efforts H111 concentrate on overcomlng nonaccldent
caused Spills and leaks, emergency response and
communlcatlons.
e
We ware successful 1n gettlng the me to raiexamlne
prevlously approved r511 1ndex procedures.
R311 Cost
Index 1ncreases result 1n automatlc freight rate 1m
creases.
The me now H111 conslder productlvlty
1mprovements as recommended by cm.
Also. CHA deter?
mlned that an Ice audlt establlshed that the AAR
Prlce Index, used as the basls for the cost 1ndex,
1ncluded unsubstantlal data.
cm H111 Elle
addltlonal comments.
mnaz
on July an, arm testlfled before the Subcommlttee on
Fossll and Synthetlc Fuels regardlng Natural Gas
Pollcy.
The arm posltlon for total phased deregulai
tlon of 511 natural gas and removal of gas market
restrlctlons was updated to 1nclude examples of member company difficulties due largely to the Natural
Gas Pollcy Act.
e
In a letter to Senator Wallop, chalman of the Senate
Flnance Commlttee's Subcommlttee on Energy and Agrk
culture Taxatlon. cm opposed any energy tax or fee
that would result 1n renderlng the Us 1ndustry uncompetltlve 1nternatlonally and would dlstort 1nterfuel
competltlon.
An all unport fee would be 1nflatloni
ary, 1nequ1table, and an unworkable admlnlstratlve
burden.
Also. 1: would adversely affect the chemlcal
1ndustry contrlbutlon m a favorable balance of
trade.
cm favors reductlon of expendltures and cor?
rectlve leglslatlve actlon for exlstlng tax strutk
ture.
New tax proposals do not 1nclude new taxes on
energy.
s
cm submltted comments on rules under the Fuel Use
Act pertalnlng m prohlbltlon orders for exlstlng
major fueliburnlng 1nstallatlons (MFB157 ~
We support
these efforts toward regulatory resom, but request
that portlons of the regulatory program be retalned
'1n the event owners of mm: deslre a prohlbltlon
order to prevent provlslons of the Clean Alr Act from
restrlctlng coal use.
1
1
j
1
1
The arm Energy Conservatlon Surrey Report for 1991
was submltted m the Department of Energy
cm
members. on the average, have 1ncreased energy prof
ductlvlty by 24.2% over 1972.
The results H111 be
cm n37929
4
publlclzed by cm A
An
Hydrocarbon Processlng"
e
artlcle
was
publlshed
1n
Members were urged to revlew and comment on the Amerlean Soclety of Heatlng, Refrlgeratlng and Alriconi
dltlonlng Englneers, Inc. (ASHRAEy 100.”. a proposed
energy conservatlon standard for exlstlng 1ndustrlal
bulldlngs.
am also prepared a strong letter object?
mg m ASHRAE'S Voluntary standards that could be es*
tabllshed as mandatory requlrements for 1ndustry by
states and local governments.
Englneerlng
cm supported the proposed revlslon of the Offlce of
Management and Budget Clrcular A7119, "Federal pari
tlclpatlon 1n the Development and Use of Voluntary
Standards. . ..
Our comments asslsted 1n obtalnlng
favorable revlslon of the clrcular"
s
cm sent comments to the Hydraullc Instltute express*
mg preference for a new 15m standard to cover both
Snicycle (European) and Enicyele msy pumps.
e
We supported adoptlon of Safety Related Malntenance
Requlrements of Natlonal Flre Protectlon Assoclatlon
7mg (Electrlcal Safety Requlrements for Employee
Workplaces) .
s
cm submltted negatlve ballot and comments on UL 991
(DeadiFront Sultchboamsy proposed as an Amerlcan
Natlonal standard.
s
cm commented extenslvely to oppose adoptlon of navy
slon No. a of mm Mail (Motors and Generators) as an
Amerlcan Natlonal Standard.
The revlslon does not
meet Department .of Labor nolse guldellnes.
e
we formed adoptlon of UL 535 (Flexlble Metalllc nosey
as an Amerlcan Natlonal Standard, after 1: was
revlsed to meet our objectlons.
ENVIRONMENTAL pnosnms
General Programs
e
The EMC establlshed a worn group to address
mental auditing lssues.
envlroni
cm revlewed and commented on ...State of the Envlroni
men: 1992..., a report prepared by the Conservatlon
Foundatl n.
cm n3793n
on July 29 the Envlronmental Management Commlttee
mum approved the followlng resolutlon:
"Based on
our present knowledge and an overall evaluatlon of
the substance of 511 congresslonal amendments to the
Clean Alr Act under conslderatlon. the ma recommends
that am contlnue 1:5 efforts to obtaln reasonable
Clean Alr Act amendments thls year".
cm testlfled at the Natlonal Alr Pollutlon Control
Technlques Advlsory Commlttee (mpcmay hearlng on
July 21~22, 1992.
The testlmony revlewed a draft of
a new source performance standard (NsPsy for the
control of Volatlle organlc compound emlsslons from
dlstlllatlon unlt operatlons.
cm completed m flare efflclency test at John Zlnk
Company, Tulsa. 0K.
EPA has excluded flares as con?
trol devlces 1n recent regulatlons, cltlng poor eff
flclency as the reason.
Th1: test could save member
companles mllllans 1n retroflt costs and 1n savlngs
for new facllltles.
cm submltted wrltten comments to EPA and testlfled
before NAPCTAC on the draft NsPs for 1ndustrlal
hollers.
EPA has 1nd1cated that many of CMA' s sugi
gestlons H111 be accepted.
cm submltted comments to the Agency on the Addltloni
31 Informatlon Document for fugltlve emlsslons of
organlc compounds.
The Process Emlsslon Regulatlons Task Group submltted
comments to EPA on the Polymers and Reslns Control
Technlque Guldellne Document.
The EPA document 15
5:111 unfavorable to the chemlcal 1ndustry.
The EMC establlshed an Alr Regulatlons Task Group to
handle nonattalnment, preventlon of Significant dE*
terloratlon. and state 1mplementatlon plan lssues.
cm submltted wrltten comments to EPA on the Draft
Guldellne for the Control of Volatlle Drganlc Emlsi
slons from Manufacture of High Denslty Polyethylene,
Polypropylene and Polystyrene Reslns.
The Fugltlve Emlsslons Work Group met wlth the Texas
Chemlcal Councll to draft comments on EPA'S back?
ground document for the fugltlve emlsslons control
technlque guldellne, new source performance standard,
and natlonal emlsslon standard for hazardous alr
p llutants.
5
Hazardous Waste Management Programs
...Dn July 29, 1992, cm testlfled before the Subcommlti
tea on Toxlc Substances and Envlronmental Overslght,
Senate Commlttee on Envlronment and Publlc Works. on
reauthorlzatlon of the Safe Drlnklng Water Act.
The
testlmony recommended that states employ a use*class*
1f1catlon system as the basls for preservlng the
multlple uses of groundwater.
e
The EMC adopted a statement of "Hazardous Waste Man*
agement Goals... as part of an overall hazardous waste
management plan for presentatlon m the Executlve
Commlttee/Board of Dlrectors 1n October.
a
The Hazardous Waste Response Center Task Group reach?
ed a tentatlve agreement wlth kpa 7* Edlson, New
Jersey Laboratory Offlce W to cooperate 1n developi
mg a manual for the cleanup of hazardous spllls.
s
am prepared comments on the Conservatlon Foundai
tlon's handbook entltled. "Siting Hazardous Waste
Management Facllltles".
5911:: Waste Regulatory Programs
e
on August 4, 1992, cm testlfled before the Senate
Commlttee on Envlronment and Publlc Works' Subcomi
mlttee on Envlronmental Pollutlon regardlng Superfund
1mplementatlon.
e
on July 25, 1992, EPA publlshed proposed standards
for landfllls. surface 1mpoundments, and landfarms.
These regulatlons are a great 1mprovement over EPA...5
prevlous proposals, and track the recommendatlons of
the RCRA Regulatlons Task Group.
a
EPA has asked permlsslon m modlfy the mum consolk
dated permit settlement agreement, reduclng allowable
expanslons durlng 1nter1m status from 5m to 10%.
am has 1nfomed EPA that we H111 agree wlth the
change.
a
The EMC approved a resolutlon that "Mlned out areas
and waste generated from mum; and mlneral process*
mg are not approprlate sltes for cleaniup actlon
...under CERCLA."
e
on June 24, 1992, cm presented testlmony before the
Envlronmental Pollutlon Subcommlttee of the Senate
Commlttee on Envlronment and Publlc Works on rear
thorlzatlon and posslble amendments of RCRA.
cm n37932
mu Programs
*Dn July 22, 1992, cm testlfled before the Subconmlttee on Envlronmental Pollutlon of the Senate Conmlttee on the Envlronment and Publlc Works regardlng
the Admlnlstratlon's proposed amendments to the Clean
Water Act.
e
A jolnt CMA/EPA statement was prepared on the conclui
slons of the F1Ve*Plant Study.
s
cm submltted wrltten comments
ablllty Manual.
s
cm provlded comments to the Amerlcan Petroleum
Instltute (mm on the CMA/API human healthibased
water quallty Crlterla report, "An Evaluatlon of
EPA'S water Quallty Crlterla Docunent for Arsenlc
wlth Suggested Revlslons."
The report, prepared by
Rolf Hartung, 15 an excellent dlscusslon of the
shortcomlngs of the 1980 crlterla for arsenlc.
s
cm cosponsored an aquatlc toxlcology workshop eni
tltled. "Hazard Assessment for Complex Effluents,“
held August 22727, 1992, attended by 24 1nv1ted
guests, at Valley Ranch, Wyomlng.
e
The 1ndustry/EPA settlement agreement on the Consoli
ldated Permlt Regulatlons was Signed on June 9.
cm
H111 follow through to ascertaln that the publlshed
settlement language 15 conslstent wlth the
agreement.
a
The EMC approved the posltlons on the Admmsmr
tlon's Clean water Act Amendment proposals recom*
mended by the Water Pollcy Task Group.
a
on June 24, 1992, cm held a Blologlcal Assessment
workshop to evaluate the role of blologlcal testlng
1n recelvlng water assessment or effluent toxlclty
testlng.
Twentyifour member company representatlves
attended the workshop.
HEALTH:
:9
the
Treati
SAFETY AND CHEMICAL REGULATIONS urvrsmu
Chemlcal Regulatlons Advlsory Commlttee
e
EPA on
August 4, E. Hamllton Hurst (Nalco Chemlcal Company),
ma Chalrman, testlfled for cm before the Subcomi
mlttee on T 141:: Substances and Envlronmental ov rslght of the Senate Envlronmental Publlc w rks
c mmlttee.
The Subcommlttee held a TSCA overslght
hearlng focuslng
n negotlated testlng; the mm
cm n37933
s
a
process 1n general and my: exemptlon petition;
Sectlon a reportlng; and 1nternatlonal harmonlzatlon
July 25, cm submltted a document to m. John
Todhunter entltled' "Infomatlon Systems Under TSCA....
The document dlreasses EPA'S Chemlcal Substances
Infomatlon Network (cslm 1n the context of what 15
requlred by TSCA, and makes recommendatlons to EPA
for improvlng the handllng of chemlcal 1nformatlon.
a
July 29¢ cm submltted comments to EPA concernlng an
Ageney project on the development of reportlng
formats for Sectlon 4 test data.
The comments
emphaslze that thls rlgld, approach 15 1ncon515tent
wlth the Agency's 1ncreaslngly flexlble approach to
Sectlon 4 testlng.
e
August a~ cm ﬁlled comments on EPA'S proposed rules
under Sectlon e157 concernlng followup processor
reportlng and the 1ncluslon of addltlonal lTC
chemlcals 1n the flnal rule.
a
The Impact Analysls Task Group (mum is conductlng a
pilot survey on chemlcal company actlvltles to reduce
unreasonable rlsk.
Prellmlnary results are encouragi
mg.
The pilot survey H111 be completed 1n
mldiseptember.
e
The Inc revlewed the economlc analyses that EPA 15
usmg to support the proposed rule on data cost
relmbursement.
Results H111 be used 1n any:
comments on the proposed rule.
a
me 15 perlodlcally meetlng wlth EPA staff to
1ncrease communlcatlon between cm and the Agency on
toxlc substances lssues.
Most recently. Don Clay and
Marcla Wllllams. Dlrector and Deputy Dlrector. Offlce
of Toxlc Substances. EPA. met wlth cm: members at
the July 21 meetlng.
Dccupatlonal Safety and Health
a
The Safety Standards Task Group drafted comments on
the Dccupatlonal Safety and Health Admlnlstratlon's
(osam proposal to drop advlsory standards that use
...:he word "should" 1nstead of "shall."
a
At DSHA'S 1nV1tatlon. Safety Standards Task Group
members gave a sh rt :1 urse at the Agency on the
Balanced Perfomance Standard approach.
The audlence
of about 4n pe pie were malnly OSHA standards um,
ers. some um n representatlves and others.
The
concept was wellirecelved.
cm n37934
9
a
June 1, commants on DSHA'S proposed Hazard! Communk
catlons Standard ware submlttad to tha Agency.
whlle
...support1ng promulgatlon of a fadaral standard, tha
commants encouraged changes 1n several speclflcs on
tha proposal (e«g., 1% cutioff for labellng hazardous
lngredlents 1n mlxtures, labellng reactlon Vessels,
asus speclflcs, etc.7.
a
June 19, 5114 wltnesses presented testlmony on the
Hazards Communlcatlons Standards comments at the OSHA
hearlngs 1n Washlngton, Dc.
In addltlon. several
member companles presented statements both 1n
Washlngton, Dc and at the reglonal hearlngs 1n
Houston, Los Angeles, and Detrolt.
e
The booklet "Chemlcal Safety" An Industry perspectlve
on nghtitoiknow Issues Analysls" 15 belng dlstrlbui
ted to member companles for use 1n lobbylng for modk
flcatlon or wlthdrawal of state communlty ngnnmknow leglslatlon.
Th1: booklet 15 part of a packet
contalnlng 1nfomatlon on occupatlonal cancer, pre*
emptlon, 1ndustry commltment, communlty lssues, and,
other mlscellaneous materlals.
e
A serles of radlo 1ntervlews ls belng produced on the
toplc of rlghtitoiknow.
Two toplcs, "Trade Secrets...
and "Research! Protectlng People", have been comi
plated, wlth four to Elva addltlonal shows yet to be
produced.
A September 1 goal is set for completlon.
e
Natlonal Publlc Radlo 1ntervlewed tha Comotto
osaA's proposed Hazards Communlcatlon standard.
a
R. Comotto attended the Gordon Conference on Envlroni
mental Sclences!
Water.
a
a. Prelfeld attended the Gordon
cology and Safety Evaluatlons.
Regulatory Impact speclal Commlttee
Conference
on
on
Toxr
e
RISC created an Arsenlc Work Group and authorlzed up
to 535.000 m examlne data on occupatlonal exposure
to arsenlc.
The study H111 examlne an apparent
"threshold" for carclnogenlclty 1n humans.
a
wuss created a RCRA Pollcy Model work Group to cry
thue EPA'S RCRA Rlsk/Cost Pollcy Model.
When operi
atlonal. the model H111 select the optlmal strategy
for handllng waste streams.
RISC has completed 1:: "Checkllst for Revlewlng Regui
latory Impact Analyses (RlA57".
The checkllst
cm arms
10
H111 now be ultd to
government agencles.
crlthue
malyltl
don“
by
BIOMEDICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIAL woman: urvrsmu
Comments on inorganlc arsenlc were ﬁlled wlth OSHA on
June 19, 1992.
DSBA...5 publlc hearlngs on llmlted
reopenlng of the inorganlc arsenlc records were held
July 1315.
Based on an analysls of 2% of the spy
demlologlcal data from Anaconda Smelters, my: con?
sultan: concluded that exposures below sun ug/m" do
not present an 1ncreased rlsk of resplratory canes:
to workers.
If thls analysls 15 correct, 1: H111 be
the flrst sclentlflc demonstratlon of a threshol- for
an alleged human carclnogen.
my: Regulatory Impact
Speclal Commlttee (RIscy commltted up to $25.00 to
cofund the effort to complete the analysls of he
remalnlng data from the Anaconda study.
a
The flnal report.on a SiRihour acute 1nhalavlon study
on allyl chlorlde was recelved from the co ractor.
Th1: completes the panel...s research act 1t1e5.
cm released the flnal report on an ortho dlchlorobenzene mucsy teratology study 1n rats and rabblts.
Exposure to n, 100. 2m or 400 ppm ones 15 mhalr
tlon was not embryotoxlc or teratogenle 1n elther
specles...
e
on June 1, the Ethylene leromlde Panl ﬁlled comi
ments on DSHA'S ANPR regardlng the o upatlonal
standard for ethylene dlbromlde.
e
OSHA and the Publlc Cltlzen Health 'esearch Group
ﬁlled notlons for summary judgmen 1n the pendlng
lawsult on ethylene oxlde.
The Ethylene Dxlde 1ndus*
try Councll's mom Legal Task Force recommended
that the Councll not get dlrec y 1nvolved 1n the
sult.
The two major lssues 1n the 51: are: 17 the
need for an Emergency Tempor.ry Standard mrsy on m;
and. 27 DSBA/EPA jurlsdlctl overregulatlon of
workers 1n the sterllant d- lee 1ndustry.
EPA ﬁlled an affldavlt 1n . New York Dlstrlct Court
whlch descrlbed the Agenc '5 plans for actlng on a
backlog of xTc chemlcals nder TSCA Sectlon 4137.
Thlrteen chemlcals are 5 heduled for a test rulE. or
.declslon not to test. n the thlrd and fourth quay
ters of 1992.
Methyl ethyl ketone a . methyl 159m,
tyl ketone were substtuted for the alkyl epoxldes
uncludlng ethylene x1de7 and methylenedlanlllne...
The latter two appe.red on an earller listing.
The
affldavlt does no affect EPA'S 1nternal tlmetable
cm arms
1
11
for declslon o ethylene oxlde whlch calls for "dE*
clslon documen .. preparatlon by the Agency 1n early
.September an a Federal Reglster notlce announclng
that declslo 1n December 199%
The mm sub ltted
m CPA a stdy plan for an m Voluntary test
program
e
of the 5 9 mllllon commltted m the Fluorocarbon
Research Program for calendar year 199v slnmnnn has
been 51 ocated m obtalnlng a better understandlng of
the m- oglcal and cllmatlc effects of potentlal
ozone :epletlon or redlstrlbutlon.
The sate of
curr-nt knowledge“ the Valldlty of results reported
1n e llteraturE, and the adequacy of the
met odology used to obtaln these results H111 be
1n estlgated.
e
llfornla/DSHA has released 3 Hazard Alert on
thylene glycol? monoethyl ether mmn ethylene
glycol monomethyl ether (EGMm ~ ethylene glycol
monoethyl ether acetate (EGEEA7 and ethylene glycol
monomethyl ether acetate 136mm.
The Panel submltted a letter to the ZTC outllnlng the
ongolng research program on mm.
Based upon the
exlstence of thls test program" the ITC has agreed to
defer conslderatlon of addlng EGEE to the ITC 115:
untll early 1933.
e
A Voluntary test program on lsophorone has been sub?
mltted to EPA by lsophorone producers 1n the Ketones
program
The test program conslsts of an 1nhalatlon
teratology study and a mutagenlclty battery.
The
Natlonal Toxlcology Program mm 15 already
conductlng a bloassay on lsophorone.
e
The Polychlorlnated Blphenyls (PCB57 Program Panel
ﬁlled comments 1n response to EPA'S Proposed Rule to
exclude the productlon of PCB: 1n "closed" and
"controlled waste" manufacturlng processes from the
provlslons of Sectlon 6(a) of TSCA.
The Panel asked
that EPA wlthdraw 1:: current proposal and publlsh a
new rule whlch would establlsh a regulatory cutioff
waste streams that do not pose an unreasonable rlsk.
.The Panel Chalman testlfled at an EPA hearlng on the
use of electrlcal equlpment contalnlng PCBS.
In
addltlon” EPA held a leglslatlve hearlng for the
closed and controlled waste process rule on July 2a~
1932.
Industry spokespe pie and NRDC/EDF testlfled.
EPA'S response to questlons submltted by cm appears
to conflm that EPA'S analytlcal appr ash 15 a
CMA 037937
12
"......arch for zero" 1n measurlng PCB concentratlon".
request for cross*exam1natlon was made.
a
A
Elars Bloresearch Laboratorles toxlcology facllltles
closed Hlth screenlng for the cm Phase 1x zlnc
dlalkyl dlthlophosphates 12mm research 1n progress.
The protocol for thls study 15 belng rebld.
EPA 15 conslderlng zoDP for test rule development
The Offlce of Toxlc Substances has
requested productlon 1nfomatlon from the zoDP
manufacturers on the Panel.
a
EPA 15 concerned because methylenedlanallne (MBA)
appears to be a potent carclnogen and they plan to
propose a test rule by December 21, 199%
The mm
Panel 15 conslderlng negotlatlng Hlth EPA on a
Voluntary testlng program"
a
The Vlnyl Chlorlde Program recelved a flnal report on
research technlques and methods for the detectlon and
preventlon of carclnogenesls 1n the 1ndustrlal
worker"
Th1: report 15 the last 1n 3 aerles from a
three*year research grant to the Unlverslty of
Loulsvllle.
e
The Toluenedlamlnes 1mm Panel met mm EPA to d15*
cuss the XTC recommendatlon on phenylenedlamlnes.
BPA'S concern for envlronmental effects testlnq has
been reduced Since ma appears to readlly degrade and
there 15 llttle release to the envlronment.
CMA
I
c:
I
I
CMA 037939
I
EXHIBIT L
upon 017 THE ummmn 0F sovmmmm RELATIONS
WILLIAM M. STDVER
swam AND TAXATION:
mmsnmm GIVES TAX INCREASES NEEDED vaa
In July the House and Senate agreed to a compromlse budget resolutlon that
would produce a deficit of $103.9 bllllon 1n Flscal 1933. Overcomlng almost
1mposslble odds. Senate Flnance Commlttee Chalman Bob Dole (RiKansJ held his
troops together 1n the Senate to pass a three*year, see bllllon tax 1ncrease
shortly before the Fourth of July. The House Democratlc leadershlp confounded
longtlme Washlngton observers by electlng to go 1mmedlately to conference on
the Senate tax mu wlthout attemptlng to adopt 1mprov1ng amendments.
The conservatlve revolt agalnst the tax mu that falled m materlallze
1n the Senate, showed initial Signs of strength 1n the House. Led by Congress*
man Jack Kemp “Hm, the early opponnents of the Senate tax program 1ncluded
many of the same representatlves who supported passage of the Presldent's 1991
tax program. Just as several key busmess trade organlzatlons announced thelr
opposltlon to major segments of the Senate b111, the Presldent commltted the
prestlge of ms offlce and ms speclal powers of "frlendly persuaslon" to
encourage recalcltrant Congressmen to support passage of the Senate tax program.
The Senate Flnance tax package represented a Significant retreat from the
busmess tax refoms adopted 1n 1931. Both Senate Flnance Commlttee Chalrman
Dole and Senate Budget Commlttee Chalrman Domenlcl “Hm emphaslzed these
changes were needed to reduce the level of projected Federal deficits over the
.next three years. Several provlslons 1n thls package would place added tax
burdens on capltal 1ntenslve 1ndustr1es, especlally the chemlcal 1ndustry.
Meetlng 1n marathon negotlatlng sesslons, Bonsaisenate conferees reached
a conference agreement whlch was remarkably close to the package reported by the
Senate Flnance Commlttee. The most unportant provlslons of the conference
agreement affectlng capltal formatlon 1ncluded:
o
Reductlon of ACRS (Depreclatlon) and Investment Tax Credlt
The conference agreement would reduce the basls of property
for ACRS purposes by onsihalf the amount of the 1nvestment
tax credlt and/or energy tax credlt. In general, the effect
of thls provlslon would be to reduce the value of the 1nvesti
men: tax credlt from 10 percent to approxlmately 7.9 percent.
As alternathE, busmesses could contlnue to take full ACRS
beneflts, provlded the amount of the 1nvestment tax credlt
was reduced to a percent.
CMA 037945
The maxlmum amount of tax that can be offset by
the 1nvestment tax credlt would be reduced from
an ta as percent of actual tax liability.
I
Most unportantly, the accelerated rates of ACES
recovery now scheduled for property placed 1n
servlce after 1994 would be repealed. To chemlcal
companles thls was the most unportant smgle
feature of the 1991 tax leglslatlon.
o
o
Mlnlmum Tax and Reductlon of Corporate Tax Beneflts Includlng
ursc
In addltlon to the present corporate minimum tax, the conference
agreement would reduce certaln enumerated corporate tax beneflts
1nclud1ng ursc deferrals by 15 percent.
Sectlon 935 Possesslons Corporatlons Credlt Limited
fl
1
The sectlon 935 possesslons corporatlons credlt affectlng
1nvestment by v.5. cozporatlons 1n Puerto Rlco would be
severely restrlcted. In addltlon, the mu would requlre
acceleratlon of corporate estlmated tax payments and would
impose addltlonal llmltatlons on corporate penslon contrlbutlons
and beneflts.
The conferees rejected a last mlnute effort of a busmess Coalltlon to reduct
the blll's 1mpact on capltal fomatlon and corporate afteritax earnlngs.
At present, there appears to be no enthuslastlc receptlon from House
Democrats for any proposal to compromlse on thls issue. In addltlon, there 1:
concern that 15 actlon 15 not taken to reduce ACRS thls year, the budget deflclts
projected for 1995 and 1995 would be unacceptably high.
CLEAN AIR ACT1
OUTLOOK BLEAK mu HELPFUL AMENDMENTS
(As of August 157 Clean Alr Act amendments are belng consldered by both
the Senate Envlronment Commlttee and the House Commerce Commlttee 1n an effort
to report mus before the August Congresslonal recess.
The House markiup of 3.x. 5252 resumed August 10, focusslng on Sectlon 112
the polnt at whlch Chalman John mngen (Dim) had recessed markiup on Aprll 2e.
Chalman mngell and Ranklng Mlnorlty member James T. Broyhlll (Rina) had 551d
that contlnuatlon would depend upon resolutlon of four lssues Preventlon of
Slgnlflcant'Deterloratlon (Psm, Bald raln, moblle sources, and hazardous alr
pollutants (Sectlon 1127. The DlngelliBroyhlll leadershlp worked mm a group
:I
1
CMA 037945
of "5ng Vote" members to produce a compromlse package whlch they hoped would
result 1n a safe margln of Votes. More Democrats were especlally needed, besldes
the four who have Voted Hlth mngen prevlously.
Desplte the prospect of only a total of 5 Democrats 1n support of a com?
promlse package, mngell 1nd1cated the flrst week of August that markiup would
resumE, and the leglslatlve language of the compromlse flnally was released.
The CMA Envlronmental Management Commlttee task group assessment of the two
parts of the compromlse on whlch am has an offlclal posltlon was: 17 on the
lssue of PsD, the compromlse was much better than present law; and 27 on
Sectlon 112, the compromlse was Within EMC pollcy guldellnes. cm partlclpated
1n the Clean Alr Worklng Group effort to secure Votes for the leadershlp com?
promlse on Sectlon 112 the amendment was to be offered by Congressman Thomas
A. Luken miom. The Luken language would amend the Aprll 29 Broyhlll substltute
m Florlo's amendment whlch provlded for automatlc 115mm; of substances under
Sectlon 112.
The outcomE, on August 11,. was defeat of the BroyhllliLuken substltute by2l to 20 11 abstentlom.
The flnal Vote was on adoptlon of the Florlo amendment, amended by Congress*
man u. j. (mum Tauzln (DiLAy m provlde for a daillstlng procedure after
automatlc listing. The Tauzln/Florlo language passed 22720.
Chalman mngell later told a group of 1ndustry, labor and Admlnlstratlon
representatlves that he must move ahead desplte the defeat on Sectlon 112.
In the Senate, the sltuatlon 1n the Commlttee on Envlronment and Publlc
Works 15 far from encouraglng. To date, there has been llttle posltlve beneflt
1n amendments on nonfattalnment, and Vlrtually nothlng useful 1n the PSD and
amblent standardisettlng (secondary) amendments. In addltlon, an acld raln
amendment passed 1571 on July 22, provldlng for a mllllon tons reductlon 1n
annual emlsslons of sulfur dloxlde 1n 12 years. Whlle the amendment will dlrectly
1mpact the electrlc power 1ndustry 1: Hill 1nd1rectly affect all companles'
utility mus.
To data, the Commlttee has not dealt Hlth Sectlon 112 1n markiup. Commlttee
staff have been 1nterested 1n the language of a b111, by Senator Bennett Johnston
(DiLAV. s. 2795, 1ntroduced July an. 1: provldes for automatlc listing of
substances wlthout speclfylng the 37 currently under revlew by EPA.
If the Senate Commlttee does not draw from Senator Johnston's amendment or
the FlorloiTauzln amendment 1n the House, 1: could declde to approve the pendlng
commlttee prlnt, whlch 15 also hlghly undeslrable.
Clean .Alr Worklng Group efforts are under way for 1ntroductlon of a posltlve
comprehenslve mm on the Senate floor 15 the current mm 15 reported out of
the Envlronment Colmnlttee. A comprehenslve mu could be crafted from the Garn,
Byrd, and megleaeun mus, none of whlch have been consldered 1n the Stafford
Commlttee.
CMA 037947
CLEAN WATER ACT LEGISLATION
The Admlnlstratlon has racantly sent 1:: package of comprehenslve Clean
Water Act amendments to Congress for conslderatlon thls year. am has a number
of major concerns Hlth the Admlnlstratlon...s package. F1rst” 1: does not address
EAT modlflcatlon; second, 1: malntalns natlonal categorlcal standards for pre*
treatment; thlrd. 1: establlshes admlnlstratlve penaltles and felony sanctlons.
Another major lssue to be consldered durlng the clean water debate, but not
contalned 1n the Admlnlstratlon's proposal, 1: the establlshlng of Federal Common
Law. cm 1: strongly opposed to a part of the Clean Water Act amendments.
The Senate Envlronment and Publlc Works Subcommlttee on Envlronmental
Pollutlon, chalred by Senator John chases mam, held hearlngs on July 21, 22,
29 and 29. CMA, represented by Mr. Monte Throdahl (Monsanto companyy, tastlfled
on July 22 and focussed prlmarlly on the BAT modlflcatlon issue. Senator Chaf««',
subcommlttee 15 not expected to begln markiup untll mldiseptember.
on the House 51dE, the Publlc works and Transportatlon Subcommlttee on water I
Resources, chalred by Representatlve Robert Roe (Drum, held hearlngs on the
Clean Water Act on July 27, 29 and 29. 04A was once agaln represented by
Mr. Throdahl. We presented an 1nidepth explanatlon of the hlstory and success
1n unplementlng Best Avallable Technology (BAT). Chalrman Roe entered 1nto an
extenslve dlscusslon mm Mr. Throdahl on the BAT lssue whlch clearly 1nd1cated
that the Congressman fully understands and appreclates the need for flexlblllty
1n the appllcatlon of BAT to avold "treatment for treattnent's sake". Representatll
Rae's subcommlttee 15 not expected to begln markiup untll September.
CMA has 1n1tlated an extenslve medla effort on Clean Water leglslatlon.
~ We are also worklng Hlth the busmess communlty's clean water Coalltlon organlzed
under the Washlngton Envlronmental Coordlnatlng Cosmlttee (waccy.
pmnms AMENDMENTS TO THE RESOURCE coNsERvATIoN AND nmovmzy ACT many
The House Energy and Commerce Consnlttee has reported 3.x. 5307, whlch contaln
a number of amendments to the Resource Conservatlon and Recovery Act whlch are of
concern to CMA. The mm was then referred to the House Publlc Works and Transpor"
tatlon Commlttee for conslderatlon of Sectlon 4 (Hazardous Wastes Mlxed Hlth
Domestlc Sewagey and Sectlon 9 {Natlonal Groundwater aoamssmm. Mr. Jeff
Zlmmerman. Dccldental Petroleum Cozporatlon, testlfled on behalf of cm on May 25
before the Publlc Works Commlttee. on June 11, the Publlc Works Commlttee report”
3.x. 5307 mm changes to these two sectlons that would delete the reference to
RCRA 1n sectlon 4 and would expand the groundwater study beyond hazardous waste
contamlnatlon. The accompanylng report (No. 977950, Part LL) also ralses many of
the concerns expressed 1n cm testlmony.
Durlng the same time perlod, House Commerce Subcommlttee staff was meetlng
to attempt to address several lssues ralsed by cm and other groups. on June 24, 1
CMA 037949
I
Congressman Florlo (Drum 1ntroduced 3.x. 5599 1n response to these lssues.
The b111, whlch Representatlve Florlo says he will offer as a floor amendment to
3.x. 5307, would change the word "substances" back to "hazardous wastes" 1n
Sectlon 6 (Burnlng and Blendlng of Hazardous Wastes as Fuel) and Sectlon 11
(Beneflclal Use of Hazardous Wastey. These changes will satlsfy a serlous
concern of CMA.
Commerce Commlttee Chalman mngell (DiMIcm has requested and been granted
an open rule whlch means 3.x. 5307 could be consldered on the House floor before
the August Congresslonal recess. Th1: could allow floor amendments to resolve
addltlonal concerns expressed by cm and other groups, 1nclud1ng revlslons m
Sectlon 3 (Small Generator Exemptmny, Sectlon 7137 (Flnal Permitting aondluonsy,
and Sectlon 10 (Creatlon of Federal Common Law.
In a new development, Representatlve Floyd Flthlan mrmm recelved
pemlsslon from the House Rules Consnlttee to offer a Superfund amendment to 3.x.
5307. The Flthlan amendment would change the flnanclal contrlbutlon ratlo for
munlclpal dumpslte cleaniup. The Superfund now requlres a responslble munlclpallty/
state m contrlbute 50 percent of the money to clean up a slte. Representatlve
Flthlan wants to change 1: to only a 10 percent contrlbutlon from the munlclpallty/
state. Th1: amendment would put addltlonal flnanclal stralns on the llmlted
resources of the Fund, and therefore cm 15 opposed to the Flthlan amendment.
Uncertalnty remalns as to how the Senate will deal Hlth the comprehenslve
amendments to RCRA contalned 1n 3.x. 5307. on May 27, the Senate Commlttee on
Envlronment and Publlc Works reported 5. 2432, whlch does llttle more than re*
authorlze and provlde twoiyear fundlng for RCRA. Because of the House actlvlty.
Senator chases held an addltlonal day of hearlngs on June 24 m recelve testlmony
on many of the lssues 1n the House mu. cm testlmony was presented by Mr. 3111
Moore, Rohm and Haas Company.
on June 17, Senators Hart and Moynlhan 1ntroduced s. 2544, whlch would re*
qulre EPA to 115:, Within 19 months. hazardous waste whlch could no longer be
dlsposed of 1n landfllls. 1: 15 reported that Senator Hart will offer thls as
as amendment to s. 2432.
In summary, after an extremely fast start, the process to amend RCRA has
slowed but not stopped. 1: appears llkely that some changes will be made to RCRA,
but 1: 15 unclear what fom a flnal mu Will take. CMA contlnues to brlng 1::
concerns to the attentlon of the approprlate members of Congress.
mummy 0N SAFE DRINKING WATER ACT
The Senate Envlronment and Publlc Works Subcommlttee on Toxlc Substances
and Envlronmental Overslght (Gorton, RrwAsm held a fourth and flnal hearlng
July 29 on 5|:sz reauthorlzatlon. These hearlngs are 1mportant because they will
focus on who has the authorlty (Federal, State, or Local government) to manage
ground water resources and the recharge areas. Mr. Fred Stelnberg of PPG Industrles
testlfled for cm at these hearlngs 1n support of some mlnor refoms m the squ
and 1n opposltlon to federal management of ground water resources.
CMA 037949
mvmoumm. SAFETY AND HEALTH 7 EPA ownsmm BY mun HOUSE suscommmms
on July 21 and 22, four Subcommlttees chalred by Congressmen Moffett (DiConnJ
Scheuer mimm Gore (DiTennJ and Waxman mica» held jolnt hearlngs on EPA
overslght. Though ostenslbly a revlew of the flrst 14 months of Anne Gorsuch's
admlnlstratlon at EPA, 1: was called a "polltlcal sldeshow" and a "an hunt"
by several Republlcan members 1nclud1ng Congressmen Larry Wlnn (RiKansJ, Bob
members ably defended Mrs. Gorsuch. Thelr wllllngness m characterlze the
hearlngs for what they were 7 a medla clrcus 7 had a posltlve effect on the type
and content of the medla coverage. No new lssues were ralsed, as the same lltany
prevlously alred 1n the medla was heard again; budget cuts, personnel changes and
morale, groundwater Stratagy, liquids 1n landfllls, RCRA and Superfund unplemented
TSCA. enforcement efforts, lead 1n gasollne/Thrlftway, secret meetlngs, research
and development, and the llke.
The followlng concluslons may be drawn. Flrst and foremost, Anne Gorsuch
more than held her own. She ably wlthstood the polltlcal attacks, and responded
mm good points of her own. The medla coverage was not unfavorable to her. One
TV report called 1: "a trlal not a hearlng", £11m Clips showed her cool, calm
and collected throughout, and quoted one Democrat Congressman calllng the hearlng
a "waste of tune." Second, the chemlcal 1ndustry was not made a target of the
hearlngs. cm was mentloned only once or twlce, for example 1n connectlon mm
our PMN exemptlons petltlon. Thlrd, we belleve the hearlngs falled m achleve
the Democrats' purposes. Although not pemltted to present llve testlmony, my:
efforts to work Hlth Mlnorlty Members of the Subcoemllttee and mm EPA paid off.
CMA submltted a statement for the record of the hearlng.
SAFETY AND HEALTH 7 cm TESTIFIES AT SENATE HEARING 0N TSCA ownsmm
on August 4, Senator Slade Gorton's 1R7Wash.) Subcommlttee on Toxlc
Substances and Envlronmental Overslght (Cononlttee on Envlronment and Publlc Works)
held a hearlng on TSCA Overslght. Hamllton Hurst, Vice Presldent of Nalco Chemlcll,
Company, testlfled on behalf of CMA. SDCMA, EPA'S Dr. Todhunter. mum and the
Conservatlon Foundatlon also testlfled. The hearlng focused on 17 negotlated/
Voluntary testlng under sectlon 4; 27 the PMN process 1n general, and CMA'S
exemptlons petition for low rlsk chemlcals under sectlon 51m 147; 37 EPA'S
sectlon may reportlng rule; and 47 1nternatlonal hamonlzatlon efforts/DECIPMPD.
The entlre tone of the Senate hearlng was constructlve and not adversarlal,
unllke recent House medlaiorlented events revlewlng EPA'S flrst 14 months under
Anne Gorsuch. cm achleved 1:: goals of provldlng a balanced revlew of EPA'S
accompllshments 1n unplementlng TSCA, and educatlng the Subcommlttee as to
chemlcal 1ndustry concerns regardlng reasonable 1ntezpretatlons of TSCA. Chalrman
Gorton learned of the real progress bemg made by the Agency, and of the advantage
to the publlc and EPA, as well as m the 1ndustry, that will result from
negotlated testlng agreements and PMN exemptlons. Barrlng unforeseen development!,
the Subconmllttee sees no need to conslder amendments to TSCA at thls tlme, and
1
will return to TSCA next year.
4
I
CMA 037950
SAFETY AND HEALTH 7 PMN TEST DATA
Congressman James Florlo (Drum has requested the Offlce of Technology
Assessment (mm to conduct a revlew and analysls of the adequacy of the
toxlcologlcal test data contalned 1n the premanufacture notlflcatlons (musy
submltted under sectlon 5 of TSCA. Securlty procedures have been establlshed
to protect confldentlal busmessqncomamon. The study 1: expected to be
completed thls Fall, and dependlng on 1:: results, Mr. Florlo will undoubtedly
hold hearlngs elther later 1n the Fall, 15 Congress 1: 1n sesslon, or 1n the
Sprlng of next year 1n connectlon mm TSCA reauthorlzatlon. Dependlng on the
outcome of the study, Mr. Florlo can be expected to push for some type of flxed
set of PMN testlng for all new chemlcals, along the llnes of the European
system mmmmmmum Premarket uatay. CMA 15 handllng thls lssue mm great care,
we have wrltten to EPA expresslng our concerns about the handllng of confldentlal
busmess 1nfomatlon and about the scope of the revlew.
SAFETY AND HEALTH 7 ANIMAL RESEARCH TESTING
Congressman Doug Walgren's (DiPaJ Sclence Subcommlttee held hearlngs last
Fall and thls Spring on a mu to promote nonianlmal testlng and impose llmltatlons
on toxlcologlcal research. Strlngent llmltatlons would be placed on research
laboratorles 1nclud1ng rlgorous accredltatlon procedures, inspection of facilities,
revlew by communlty representatlves and Veterlnarlans, and recordkeeplng. on
August 11, 3.x. 5929 was reported by the full Sclence Commlttee of the House.
So
long as the Admlnlstratlon contlnues to oppose 1:, passage by the Senate 15 not
consldered llkely. CMA 15 monltorlng developments.
SAFETY AND HEALTH 7 COMPARATIVE RISK ANALYSIS
A House Sclence Subcommlttee held markiup on Congressman Don thter's
(RiPaJ rlsk analysls b111, 3.x. 5159. The measure would establlsh a an month
research and demonstratlon program to 1mprove comparatlve rlsk analysls technlques
1n regulatory declslon maklng, and to coordlnate rlsk evaluatlon efforts among
nlne federal regulatory agencles. The mm was reported out of the full Sclence
CommlttEE, and passed by the House August 2. The cm Regulatory Impact Speclal
Commlttee supports the concepts of the leglslatlon.
SAFETY AND HEALTH 7 GENETIC SCREENING
The Offlce of Technology Assessment (DTA), the sclentlflc am of the Congress,
15 studylng the extent to whlch companles are usmg genetlc and cytogenetlc
screenlng 1n the workplace. The study was requested by Congressman Albert Gore
(DiTennJ: whose House Sclence Subcommlttee on Investlgatlons and Overslght had
prevlously...held hearlngs last Fall and 1n June of thls year. Although prellmlnary
results of the study show only a handful of the Fortune sun companles are
presently dolng any blochemlcal or cytogenetlc testlng, Mr. Gore seems predlsposed
toward the posltlon that many companles are rushlng headlong 1nto usmg such
screenlng as an employment tool that would discriminate agalnst certaln classes
of employees or appllcants for employment. The on study 1: expected to be
completed thls Fall, and Mr. Gore undoubtedly Will have more to say on the subject.
A CMA member company testlfled at the prevlous hearlng and we are monltorlng
developments.
CMA 037951
ENERGY;
CMA msupms m FAvoR 0F NATURAL GAS DEREGULATIDN
on July 30, 1932, cm testlfled before the Fossll and Synthetlc Fuels
Subcommlttee of the House Energy and Colmnerce Commlttee. The cm Energy
Commlttee Chalrman. James D. Beatty, Manager, Energy. 7 Englneerlng Government
Relatlons of the Procter and Gamble Company, presented the CMA Vlewpolnt urging
that a phased deregulatlon of all natural gas begln by a date certaln.
The
testlmony addressed the serlous shortcomlngs of the Natural Gas Pollcy Act of
1979, cltlng examples, and focussed on supply problems and inequities caused
by dlfferlng Volumns of prams“ gas 1n the Varlous pipelines. The CMA testlmony
came as part of a users' panel durlng the second 1n 3 set of seven House hearlngs
examlnlng lssues regardlng natural gas decontrol. The prevlous hearlng was also
devoted to recelvlng the comments of consumers of natural gas, and two studles
regardlng the potentlal unpact of deregulatlon were released. Gas dlstrlbutors
and pipeline companles more recently presented testlmony 1n early August. Further
hearlngs will soon be announced, and the Federal Energy Regulatlon Colmnlsslon
117mm 1: expected to testlfy after Labor Day.
CMA Coalltlon efforts contlnue and communlcatlon materlals are bemg prepared.
There are no indications that proposals for natural gas deregulatlon will progress
beyond the hearlng stage 1n thls sesslon of Congress.
ENERGY
ENERGY TAXES AND/DR FEES
3
Rather than prepare a separate revenue raising measure, the House ways
and Means Colmnlttec voted to go dlrectly to conference on the Senatejoassed tax
mm. The mu prepared by the Senate Flnance Commlttee 1n July does not
1nclude the unposltlon of an 011 unport fee or any type of energy tax. However,
a ways and Means Commlttee staff memorandum does 1nclude a listing of energy
taxes and fees as posslble ltems to ralse revenue. The scope of conference
actlvlty was llmlted m the provlslons of the mm and exlstlng law, therefore,
conslderatlon of a tax or fee on energy were not addressed.
CMA efforts contlnue 1n opposltlon to any addltlonal energy taxes or fees,
1nclud1ng luvposltlon of a broadibased, ad Valorem, "BTU" tax or 011 unport fee.
Our advocacy has emphaslzed the chemlcal 1ndustry dependence on natural gas as
feedstock, and that federal spendlng cuts and passage of accelerated natural gas
decontrol Within the exlstlng tax structure would be more deslrable ways to
reduce the budget deflclt.
ENERGY:
I
:'I
1
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
on August 3, the Presldent Signed leglslatlon settlng a minimum 5111 rate
for the Strateglc Petroleum Reserve 15pm and extendlng untll December 31, 1933,
the antltrust exemptlon for 011 companles partlclpatlng 1n the Internatlonal Energy
Agreement 1mm. Publlc Law 97,229 requlres the nnmg of the sPR (presently
257 mllllon barrels of crude 9117 at a rate of at least 220,000 barrels per day
mm an ultlmate goal of 750 mllllon barrels. The leglslatlon also calls for
the Presldent to prepare a plan for wlthdrawal from the reserve. The plan will not
be subject to Congresslonal Veto and Will be trlggered 1n the event of a severe
petroleum shortfall.
CMA 037952
1
CMA contlnues to closely monltor emergency preparedness lssues because of
the posslblllty of leglslatlon and adoptlon 1n Varlous states of price and
allocatlon plans for deallng mm am 011 shortage.
ENERGY;
REDRGANIZATIDN of THE DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
A mu has been 1ntroduced 1n the Senate that would merge most of the
Department of Energy functlons 1nto the Department of Commerce. A hlgh prlorlty
for leglslatlve actlvlty 15 belng sought by the Admlnlstratlon, but llttle Senate
support has been evldent.
In the HouSE, no comparable mu has been 1ntroduced
and some Congresslonal crltlcs have 1nd1cated that the Admlnlstratlon has not
provlded the leadershlp necessary to move the mu forward. There 15 Very llttle
llkellhood of leglslatlon 1n thls sesslon of Congress.
TRADE;
PETRDCHEMICAL DIchssmNs
The 1nternatlonal petrochemlcal busmess 1: 1n dlstress. Th1: has resulted
1n unprecedented dlscusslons between governments about solutlons to present and
expected market dlfflcultles.
The EEC and the v.5. government have had three meetlngs whlch focussed on
the EEC clalm that v.5. 011 and gas price controls were an unfalr subsldy to
v.5. petrochemlcal producers. These talks are domant, but dumplng charges hav
been ﬁlled agalnst a number of v.5. products.
The Japanese have Similarly clalmed 1njury to the Japanese domestlc and
export markets by v.5. exports of petrochemlcals. The flrst govemmentitogovemment talks have been held and more are to follow. The Japanese are conslderlng
~ filing dumplng charges agalnst v.5. products.
The v.5. and Mexlcan governments have agreed to petrochemlcal dlscusslons
1n the bellef that there are difficulties ahead between the two countrles. The
converslon of Mexlco's 011 and gas reserves 1nto exportable quantltles of petroi
chemlcals 1: expected before the end of thls decade.
Advlsors to these dlscusslons have been selected by the government from
candldates proposed by 01A. They have partlclpated 1n the talks Hlth the EEC and
Hill Similarly partlclpate 1n the Japanese and Mexlcan talks.
TRADE;
COMPETITIVE ASSESSMENT snmms
Two studles are belng made 1n the government on the future competitive posltlon
of the v.5. petrochemlcal 1ndustry. The Unlted States Internatlonal Trade Commlsslon
report 1nvest1gates the unpact on the v.5. 1ndustry of expandlng petrochemlcal
1ndustr1es 1n oll produclng natlons. In the Department of Commerce, 3 speclal
CMA 037953
I
offlce has been created by Secretary Baldrlge for competltlve assessment
studles of v.5. 1ndustr1es. The v.5. petrochemlcal 1ndustry report will be the
flrst effort.
CHA 15 cooperatlng mm government departments 1n these studles.
TRADE;
RECIPRDCITY LEGISLATION
Senator Danforth's blll 15. 20947. "The Reclprocal Trade and Investment Act
of 1932", was reported out of the Senate Flnance Trade Subcommlttee Bay 20. The
House counterpart 15 3.x. a773, 1ntroduced by Representatlve Frenzel. Provlslons
1nclude extenslon of § 301 of the trade law to cover servlces, 1ntellectual pro*
party rlghts, forelgn threat 1nvestment and negotlatlng authorlty for hlghtechnology goods.
As of August 3, s. 2094 has an co*sponsors and several endorsements from
busmess and agrlcultural groupjs. 1: 1: expected to go to the floor soon after
Congress returns from 1:: August 19 recess. Concern exlsts over addltlon of
protectlonlst (domestlc contenty amendments whlch. accordlng m Danforth, would
klll the mm. The domestlc content mu 1n the House 15 3.x. 5133, and 1: has
220 co*sponsors.
The Internatlonal Trade CommlttEE, at the dlrectlon of the Executlve
Commlttee, sent 1:: endorsement of s. 2094 (excludlng amendments) to the Senate
Flnance Commlttee on July 19.
TRADE;
EXPORT 'ADING company LEGISLATION
I
Export t adlng company leglslatlon has been passed by both houses and 15
now subj-ct m jolnt conference.
(The Vehcle 15 s. 734 Hlth amendments 1nclude:
language from Representatlve St. Gemaln's 3.x. 50157.
If passe 1nto law, a new
form of mm: export effort will be posslble. The CHA Internatlonal Trade
Commltte- Hill determlne how to advlse member companles on use of the export tradlng
company om of marketlng.
TRANSPD' Anon;
MARITIME REFORM PROPOSALS DELAYED
:I
The marl 1me reform mu reported out by the Senate Commerce, Sclence and
Transpo atlon Commlttee 15 5:111 awaiting floor actlon due to opposltlon by
Senators Howard Metzenbaum miom and Strom Thumond miscy. The delay has been
created necause of antltrust implicatlﬁn, and because of Senator Slade Gorton's
miwm -posltlon m an unrelated mu 1nvolv1ng the 111mm: Brlck case. 5. 1593
15 supp- ted by CMA and reflects consensus reached between representatlves for
shlppers and carrlers.
House 51.“ actlon on the Merchant Marlne and Flsherles Commlttee*reported
proposal 3.x. 4374, has been delayed untll the resolutlon of antltrust concerns
by the -use Judlclary Commlttee. Jurlsdlctlon over the mm was asserted by the
Judlcla _ Commlttee and markiup was completed 1n late July, mm support from the .
Admlnlst atlon . Negotlatlons between the two Commlttees contlnue, and the questl4"
cm 0379.4
now 1: lab Verslon will emerge from the House Rules Commlttee, cm generally
supports the Judlclary Verslon and would encourage no further amendments except
for lan age clarlflcatlon.
If a mu led Verslon 15 presented to the House Rules
Commltte‘. 1: 15 posslble the mu could go to the floor under suspenslon or wlthout
the opp-I tunlty for change.
Passage .5 a House mu Similar to the Senate
measure ould offer the Senate leadershlp the means to adopt the House b111, thus
foregol . conference.
cm eff-I ts contlnue as part of the Shlppers' Coordlnatlng Commlttee on
Marltlme Reform.
TRANSPD' ATIDN;
CANADIA urvmzsmu
Leglslat on that would restrlct the movement of u.S. made products through
Canadla ports was unexpectedly sent to the House Rules Commlttee last month.
3.x. 353 had been labeled nonieontroverslal 1n an attempt to gain the opportunlty
for Hous- floor conslderatlon. ; A rule for the mm was not given.
Dpposltl-n to the mu came primarily from a group of mldwestern Congressmen,
and m cm. Efforts contlnue m heap the mm from reachlng the House floor.
REGULATI'Y REFORM LEGISLATION
The lon delay 1n House conslderatlon of regulatory recom leglslatlon may
be nearl g an end. Earller thls year the House Judlclary Commlttee favorably
reports an omnlbus regulatory recom b111, 3.x. 74a (DanlelsoninicAy. Since
that :1 - a new subcommlttee chalman, Congressman Sam E. Hall, Jr., (DiTX): has
been na -d for the subcommlttee that developed the leglslatlon.
a
on Mare 24 the Senate passed 5. men, the Regulatory Refom Act. 5. men
15 an a -nded Verslon of leglslatlon 1ntroduced by Senator Paul Laxalt uHmvy
and 15 — rongly supported by the busmess comnunlty. cm was a part of the
busmes coalltlon seeklng passage of thls 1mportant leglslatlon.
In July, the busmess coalltlon stepped up 1:: efforts to secure House
conslde .tlon of 3.x. 745 before the August recess. Speaker Thomas P. "mp"
D'Nelll .nd other members of the House Democratlc leadershlp had reservatlons
about t - leglslatlve Veto and Judlclal revlew provlslons of the mu. Thelr
problem, however. may be resolved by amendments whlch would brlng 3.x. 74a closer
to the .nguage of 5. men. Although chances for House floor conslderatlon of
3.x. 74-1n August are small, regulatory recom leglslatlon may yet be enacted
1n the . esent Congress.
cm 037- 5
I
t
mums:
PATENT um RESTORATION BILL REPORTED
am has actlvely supported passage of patent tern restoratlon leglslatlon,
3.x. 544 and 1:5 predecessor mu 3.x. 1937 (Kastenmeleriniwlscy. on July 23,
the Bone Judlclary Commlttee favorably reported 3.x. 5444 to the House.
y
3.x. 544 would add up to 7 years of patent life to products that must
undergo governmentimandated testlng and revlew. Durlng the markiup of the
mm by he Judlclary Commlttee, a technlcal amendment was approved whlch would
deslgna e the beneflclary of patent term restoratlon as "the product sponsor"
rather han "reclplent of marketlng approval." Th1: change would ensure that
the Tax (1 Substances Control Act would be entltled m the beneflts of patent
term retoratlon.
r
Patent em restoratlon leglslatlon passed the Senate by Volce Vote last
year. A though 3.x. 5444 has some 111 co*sponsors 1n the House 1: 15 currently
opposed \-y a coalltlon of organlzed labor, certaln consumer groups, and the
generlc drug 1ndustry.
The bus has: coalltlon supportlng early passage of 3.x. a444, 1nclud1ng
cm and ACA, 15 followlng the leadershlp of the Phamaceutlcal Manufacturlng
Assocla lon 11mm whlch supports early House passage of 3.x. 5444 wlthout further
amendme t.
1: 15 a tlclpated that 3.x. 5444 may be brought up on the House floor under
suspens on of the rules, thus requlrlng that at least twoithlrds of the Members
present Vote for the mu. Representatlves of cm member companles have been
alerted to contact Members of Congress urging them to Vote for passage of
mums:
muons mvmmn LEGISLATION
I
Congres an Robert Kastenmeler (Drwlscy has 1ntroduced two mus that
would g-Vern the patent rlghts of employed 1nventors. 3.x. 4723 and 3.x. 5535
1
would pomm: preqnvennon asslgnment agreements between employers and employees
whlch tansfer to the employer rlghts to any inventlon that 15 not an "employment ~
1nvent1-n" or a "servlce 1nventlon." 3.x. 5535 also calls for "adequate
compens.tlon for the (1nventor'57 servlce inventlon."
on July 29, the House Judlclary Subcommlttee on Courts, awn leertles
and the dmlnlstratlon of Justlce held a publlc hearlng m recelve support testlmony
from th Instltute of Electrlcal and Electronlc Englneers and from the AFL’CID.
Addltlo 51 hearlngs may be scheduled 1n the future.
The Path: and Trademark Commlttee 15 revlewlng thls leglslatlon and will
develop approprlate CMA comments, but 1: 15 unllkely that leglslatlon on thls
subject could be enacted 1n thls Congress.
cm 037-55
I
13
STATS A mm: upon
leglsla-lve and regulatory actlvlty
By late July and August, most stats laglslaeurts had adjourned for the year.
In tha -thar5. suroter raeassas wart 1n affact. Tha followlng statas art expected
to reco tha 1n tha fall 1n regular statlon: New Jarsay, Massachusatts,
Callfor 13, Illinols, Mlchlgan, Naw York, Dhlo and Pennsylvanla. Several othar
statas ava hald or Will hold speclal sasslons 1n 1953 to addrass budgat matters
and oth.r presslng concerns such as unemployment and taxes.
Regulatry actlvlty has also decreased reflectlng sumer schedules.
sum: A mm: PLANNING snow
Tha 5:5.5 Affalrs Plannlng Group, organlzed 1n Aprll at tha dlrectlon of
CMA'S E ecutlve Coamlttee. has held numerous meetlngs durlng tha turner months and
has now completed 1:: flnal report whlch 15 belng presented 1n August to tha Executlve
Comltte. Tha report focusses on:
Outlook for 1ncreased stats leglslatlve and regulatory actlvlty.
Currant and emerglng lssues.
cm org.nlzatlonal needs to effectlvely address state affalrs.
Status .nd role of state chemlcal 1ndustry counclls.
Program- of allled assoclatlons.
. commms AND TASK snow ACTIVITY
Hlth slwer leglslatlve and regulatory actlvlty durlng the summer, the
SASC an 1:: task groups have concentrated on preparatlon for the 1993 leglslatlve
sesslonu Major actlvltles 1nclude:
Contlnud plannlng for four reglonal CMA State Affalrs Issues
Semlnar- m be held 1n October and November 1n Port Chester mm.
Atlanta (cm, Chlcago (XL), and Denver (Coy. These sesslons are
deslgne m hlghllght state leglslatlve and regulatory trends and m
acqualnl plant managers, reglonal state government relatlons repi
resentallves, state trade and busmess assoclatlons and allled
1ndustr representatlves Hlth chemlcal 1ndustry lssues and CMA'S
posture on them.
Proflll g of 1nd1v1dual states 15 contlnulng at SASC meetlngs mm
Delawar. ohm and New York havlng been addressed to date.
1
cm 037-57
1
Meetlng- of the Network Task Group 1n Mlnnesota and Wlsconsln
durlng uly. These meetlngs are deslgned to enhance the worklng
relatlo shlp between cm and the local chemlcal 1ndustry 1n those
states hlle explorlng the need and deslrablllty of establlshlng
state a emlcal organlzatlons.
t
Electra 1:: Servlces Task Group completed development of servlce
and peromance guldellnes for leglslatlve and regulatory tracklng
Vendors Presentatlons by potentlal Vendors for the 1993794 sesslon
were he d on August 25727. Once a Vendor 15 selected, all member
companls Will be 1nv1ted m partlclpate 1n the program.
NATIONAI sum: sovmmmm ORGANIZATIONS ANNUAL MEETINGS
Durlng uly and August, the Natlonal Conference of State Leglslatures (NCSL7
1
and the Natlonal Governors Assoclatlon held thelr annual meetlngs. Pollcy
maklng -esslons on chemlcal 1ndustry lssues were llmlted and no Significant adverts :
posltlo s emerged.
Interac-lon between the NCSL and the busmess communlty
contlnus m 1ncrease m the beneflt of all partles. cm had an exhibit at the
NCSL metlng explalnlng our Chemtrec actlvltles and the 1ndustry's efforts to managt
hazardo 5 Haste. State Affalrs staff and member company representatlves also
worked 1th NCSL staff to place 1ndustry spokesman on hazardous materlals
t
transpotatlon and blotechnology panels.
5
I
ISSUES umm
RIGHT TI‘ Know
I
c
As prev ously reported, Wlsconsln passed a worker rlghtitoiknow mu earller
thls ye.r whlch contalned extenslve record keeplng requlrements. The Governor
then Veoed these provlslons and his veto was recently sustalned. Proponents of
rlghtitiknow 1n Wlsconsln may attempt to revlse the law 1n the near future to makt
1: more strlngent.
1
Regulat ons 1mplement1ng Callfornla's rlghtitoiknow law contlnue to work
thelr w.y through the state admlnlstratlve process. If and whan they emerge, the
Callfor 13 law will present the most Significant actual compllance problems 1n the ~
natlon.
Consnun ty Rlahtitoiknow contlnues m be extremely actlve 1n Callfornla
locallt essuch as Santa Clara. Contra Costa and Sacramento.
Inltlal y, most
communlles based thelr ordlnances on the model proposal drafted by the State
Health Iepartment, but the more recent ordlnances are becomlng more dlverse.
C1nc1nn.tl mm flnally enacted a communlty rlghtitoiknow mu durlng the summer,
whlle t e companlon proposal 1n Norwood mm was vetoed.
A new cmmblned worker and connnunlty rlghtitoiknow mm 1513 15707 has been
am 03719
1
1ntrodued 1n New Jersey by Senator Dalton and hearlngs are expected 1n September.
cm 15 orklng closely Hlth the New Jersey Chemlcal Industry Councll on thelr
develop an: of approprlate comments and arguments for the upcomlng debate.
An 1ndu-try court challenge to West Virginia's 1991 worker rlghtitoiknow law
has has defeated.
Drganlz-d labor has made state rlghtitoiknow a prlorlty lssue for 1933. Th1:
15 evld-nclng 1tself 1n states llke Michigan and Texas where rumours perslst of
mu: 1 preparatlon.
In orde to meet thls challenge, CMA 1: 1n the flnal stages
of prep.r1ng a comprehenslve 1nfomatlon packet on the rlghtitoiknow lssue for use
1n the hates. Th1: would supplement the lssues analysls booklet whlch was made
avallab a 1n late June.
HAZARDOUS WASTES
Hazardos waste contlnues .m be the most actlve state program area. The SASC
Hazardos Waste Dlsposal Task Group has been 1nvolved 1n the followlng actlvltles:
Gearlng up to address the unpact 1n the states of the forthcomlng
tort la study mandated under federal Superfund.
Complet on of the state by state data gatherlng effort on hazardous
waste.
Increasd 1nteractlon mm EMC task groups 1n pollcy development
and suport actlvltles for state actlvltles.
Meetlng mm chemlcal 1ndustry and state assoclatlon representatlves
1n Flor da durlng June to dlscuss Superfund developments as they
mlght 1 act that state.
The mos Significant leglslatlve actlvlty durlng the summer months was the
passage of a Superfund mm by New York. The flnal mm was the product of 1ntense
negotlalons between 1ndustry and the state and between the Assembly and Senate.
The act creates a cleanup fund whlch 15 funded by a waste and fee. mum party
llabllly provlslons were not 1ncluded.
In Mass.Ghusetts, HE 5551 15 llkely to be consldered thls fall. Member
company representatlves, worklng closely mm 1he Assoclated Industrles of
Massachsetts, have been engaged 1n dlscusslons Hlth the Admlnlstratlon, leglslators
and em! ronmental groups much of the year. The mu 1n 1:: current form 1: bond
flnance and contalns no addltlonal liability language.
Mlchlga HE 4715 has passed the House and 1: 1n the Senate pendlng further
actlon. Although the mu 5:111 requlres further amendments to more closely llnk
1: m fderal Superfund, 1: 15 flnanced from general revenues and does not contaln
llabllly provlslons.
The New Jersey Splll Fund will llkely be the subject of Significant amendments
thls fa 1 by Representatlve Lesnlak. DE crltlcal 1mportance m the chemlcal 1ndustry
15 the onverslon of the tax from feedstock to waste and. The New Jersey cm has
been Ho klng Hlth Mr. Lesnlak throughout the year on Splll Fund amendments.
am 03759
HA2ARPDHS MATERIALS mmsponmnou
Progres has contlnued on draftlng consensus "Good Samarltan" language
for use by a coalltlon of trade assoclatlons. cm concerns center on language
to 1nsu e adequate 1mmun1ty for companles respondlng to hazardous materlals
1nc1dens. Once consensus language has been achleved, targetlng of states for
Coalltlun actlon can begln 1n earnest. The SASC Hazardous Materlals Transportatlon
Task Gruup 15 now worklng closely Hlth Dlstrlbutlon Commlttee members to more
clearly dellneate state transportatlon concerns and develop brleflng materlals
to supp-rt our posltlons.
:]
:I
1
fl
1
5
:'I
state a d Federal staff members of the CMA Government Relatlons Department
have ben actlve 1n negotlatlons mm other trade assoclatlons and state and local
organlz tlons on the approprlate roles of federal, state and local government 1n
r gulat mg the transportatlon of hazardous materlals.
Althoug t there has beenillmlted leglslatlve or regulatory actlvlty thls year 1
on pren-tlflcatlon requlrements for hazardous materlals shlpments, Alabama recently j
proposew regulatlons requlrlng two weeks prior notlflcatlon of the shlpment of
hazardos waste. Th1: notlflcatlon would be glven to several state agencles and the A
hazardos waste faclllty to whlch the waste 15 bemg shipped.
r
AIR AMD WATER QUALITY
:I
The SAS Envlronmental Task Group has been reorganlzed under a new chalrman
and has deslgnated prlorlty lssues 1n the alr and water quallty area 1nclud1ng:
Groundw.ter/safe drlnklng water, water quallty standards (1nclud1ng pemlttlng
11mm: onsy. praitreatment, hazardous air pollutants, controlled tradlng, and
state c-ncer Pollcles.
The :35 group 15 worklng mm the 2m groundwater and water quallty standards
task gr-ups on developlng state lssue posltlons and supportlng materlals.
Major lglslatlve and regulatory actlvlty 1ncludes the Callfornla Alr Resource
Board p oposal to severely regulate both proven and suspected toxlc air contamlnants
Callfor 13 SB 1005 would leglslatlvely 11m: and control thelr authorlty to regulatl
1n thls area. Other states Hlth toxlc alr contamlnant leglslatlon 1nclude
Loulsla a, Illlnols. Wyomlng and Texas.
Mlchlga 51; 500 would extend the 115s of the state TSCA act 1ndefln1tely.
I
Mlchlga 15 also worklng on developmg rlsk assessment methodology for use 1n wattrl
quallty standards.
I
CHA
cm 037.50
I
EXHIBIT M
REPORT F DIRECTOR 0F comwmnmus
RICHARD L. WILSON
mnmw TIDN;
The cm Communlcatlons Department has one prlmary objectlve;
to 1ncrase recognltlon that the chemlcal 1ndustry 15 commltted
to act esponslbly to protect the publlc from the health and
safety 15k: of 1:: products 77 and thereby to develop publlc
support for the 1ndustry's publlc pollcy posltlons.
The depmn
men: 15 an 1ntegral part of the cm umbrella functlon of advocacy.
CMA'S c-mmunlcatlons actlvltles are 1nstrumental 1n shaplng
publlc nderstandlng and publlc support.
From ths understandlng
and suport evolves government controls and lssue*related laws
and reg latlons.
The dep.rtment 15 1nterlocked mm and suppori
tlve of every other CMA department and Commlttee through every
step of the publlc pollcy process.
The cm Communlcatlons Commlttee (made up of the top prof
fesslon.ls 1n the 1ndustry7 monltors department actlvltles and
helps 1 program development.
The comrehenslve program 1ncludes:
2.“:vaer 7 The CMA twoiyear old advertlslng program produced
measura-le results. as tested by Cambrldge Reports 1n 1:: thlrd
wave pu-llc opinion poll earller thls year.
Almost 316 the
."polltcal actlve" sample surveyed were aware of the CMA communk
catlon n the magazlnes 1n whlch the ads appeared.
Those 3 are
of the ommunlcatlons gave the 1ndustry better marks (13 percentage
polnts7 for 1:: efforts on waste dlsposal than those who were not.
For the flrst tune Since 1990, the proportlon of polltlcally
actlve ndlvlduals who feel the 1ndustry 15 concerned about the
average person's welfare 147m nearly equals those Viewing the
1ndustr as unconcerned.
The curent creatlve strategy W to demonstrate the chemlcal
1ndustr commltment through the personal concern of 1nd1v1dual
1ndustr people by showlng thelr dual role as concerned parent and
worker 7 Will be used for the remalnder of thls calendar year.
These t-n humanilnterest advertlsements appear 1n Time, Newsweek,
v.5. Na 5 & World Report. Smlthsonlan, The New York Tunes. The Los
Angeles Tlmes and The Washlngton Post.
In two ears these ads have
generat-d almost a quarter of a million requests for the "key
lssues" booklets and addltlonal 1nformatlon.
Several new creatlve formats
men: beglnnlng Jan. 1, 1933.
are bel g consldered
for pl.ce*
cm 037951
2
NEWS 5 'VICES 7 By the mlddle of September 1992 , members of cm ' s
Sclenc- Advlsory Group will Visit 57 cltles and appear on more
than 1 n televlslon and 105 radlo programs and partlclpate 1n
nearly 125. newspaper 1ntervlews.
The setlon 15 coordlnatlng
an eve more aggresslve medla tour schedule durlng the current
medla our "season."
Betwee June 1932 and May 1933, medla
tour sokespersons should V151: approxlmately en prlmary Cities.
News m.terlals dlstrlbutlon 1ncludes speclal newsfeatures and
oplnlo pieces for prlnt medla; lssue backgrounders; speclal re*
ports Irom ChemEcolqu; news releases; booklets and pamphlets;
and dltrlbutlon of "The Chemlcal Industry Facts Flle."
The Setlon has begun productlon of speclal communlcatlons
mater1.ls on such key lssues as water and hazardous waste.
The
flrst .5 these was a package of materlals on water lssues, dE*
Signed for use or adaptlons by member companles at the local level.
Includd 1n thls package were: a model speech and press release;
backgr-unders on water lssues,’ suggested questlons and answers for
medla ntervlews; VldeO £11m Clips.
51mm packages on other
lssues W 1nclud1ng hazardous waste dlsposal W are planned.
The Sentlon will produce a speclal monthly newsletter to
member company communlcatlon personnel tracklng press comments
and reorts on major lssues.
Anothe- newsletter 15 planned for
member- of the press to keep them up to date on lssues.
Radlo peratlons 1nclude: THE upon, a serles of threemlnute newsfeatures, dlstrlbuted blweekly to a LSDDistatlon
networ .
Interv ew toplcs cover hazardous waste treatment, d15*
posal .nd siting, energy, Clean alr and water lssues, and other
'chemlal related subjects.
Onsiml ute newsfeeds Hlth actuallty
are do a when 1mmedlacy 15 unportant.
Usage ates of 1,250 to
1,550 -tatlons encourage an 1ncreased effort 1n the future.
In the televlslon area: nlnetyisecond newsfeatures were
producd thls spring on Superfund and hazardous waste techno logy,
Inltla dlstrlbutlon was done by satelllte mm followup pla cement
1n e4 arget markets.
More n wsfeatures are planned for mu 5 flsca 1
year 0 enemy, envlronmental and economc lssues.
Medla ontact contlnues and Will be expanded by attends nee at
the R510 and Televlslon News Dlrectors Assoclatlon. Natlons 1
Radlo .roadcasters Assoclatlon and Natlonal Farm Broadcaster s
Assoc1.tlon conventlons.
1
1
1
Also. ews Servlces 15 responslble for coordlnatlng sus talned,
dayito day contact Hlth all members of the press and eoordln atlon
of plaement and development efforts by any: outslde publlc relatlons counsel.
The Setlon's medla contact efforts have resulted 1n numerous
televl lon and radlo 1ntervlews for cm staff executlves on each of
cm 03 952
1
3
the maor commerclal televlslon networks.
and th Publlc Broadcastlng System.
Natlon. 1
Publlc Radlo
Ca 115 from the medla m cm average about 4,200 calls a year,
Th1: c gure does not 1nclude telephone and personal contacts
1n1tla ed by the Sectlon.
In add tlon, the Sectlon has undertaken a program to place
cm of laers and executlves on major speaklng platforms 1n major
market across the country, such as: the Detrolt Economlcs Club;
the Ho Id Affalrs Councll of Plttsburgh; the Executlve Club of
I
Chlaagn ~
swam PROJECTS 7 A plot reglonal communlcatlons program 15 bemg
launeh d.
The pr-gram Will be llmlted to one state, will be molded
to tha state's communlcatlons needs and Will be carrled out by the
state hemlcal 1ndustry councll or 1:5 equlvalent, along mm the
suppor of the companles that make up the councll.
Funds or the
progr. would be made avaliable by CMA.
The pu poses of the pilot
progr. are to measure the'effectlveness of the cm communlcatlons
progr.1n a concentrated area and to develop a model whlch other
states could use to attack thelr communlcatlons problems.
As of lune, 1,090,000 key lssue booklets have been prlnted, and
947.55 have been dlstrlbuted.
Total eaflets prlnted were 1,472,700,
Hlth 1 207,750 dlstrlbuted.
Presen atlons on CMA'S communlcatlons program were given to the
.pub11 relatlons staff of Celanese Corporatlon, the Chemlcal Sectlon
of the Internatlonal Assoclatlon of Buslness Communlcators and the
Falrflld County, Greenwlch, Conn., chapter of the Publlc Relatlons
Souls: of Amerlca.
Contac has been made mm the publlc relatlons
commlt es of the Amerlcan Instltute of Chemlcal Englneers, to enllst
AIChE embers 1n CMA'S communlcatlons effort.
The Du’ont Company's 1ntroductory sesslon for the cm staff
tralnl my program was so successful that portlons of the program
will b- 1ncluded 1n CMA'S communlcatlons program.
Th1: 1 troductory sesslon was shown to mm, and topilevel
manage an: at the Envlronmental Protectlon Agency 1n May.
Consu -r Informatlon: Th1: Sectlon 15 1nvolved heavlly 1n
organlatlon liaison W 1n1tlat1ng, developlng and maintaining
mutually beneflclal relatlonshlps between cm and a Wide Varlety
of co umer. publlc 1nterest, educatlonal and other 1nfluentlal
organl atlons..
The Se tlon pa rtlelpated 1n the past ten annual conventlons of
the A -r1can Women 1n Radlo and Televlslon 12mm, mm contlnulng
conta and Servlel ng throughout the year.
cm p nudes oniscene
TV an radlo taplng facllltles for AWRT 1ntervlews mm key member
comps ; executlves.
cm 03 953
4
Also. he Sactlon partlclpated for the fourth year 1n
Ventu - mm the Natlonal Assoclatlon of Farm Broadcasters
Twelv- company executlves gave 295 radlo and TV 1ntervlews
andia alf'days .
a 51m 3r
1n m.
The p -gram conslstently exhlblts at the natlonal conventlons
and w- ks throughout the year wlth:
Gener. Federatlon of Women's Clubs 77 12,500 v.5. clubs
and 5.0.000 members;
Amerlan Home Economlcs Assoclatlon 77 55,000 members mm
hlgh nonsentratlon 1n academia;
Natlo 51 Assoclatlon of Extenslon Home Economlsts H 4.100
membes who work Hlth 59,000 clubs;
Natlo 51 Extenslon Homemakers Councll 77 600,000 members;
Amerlan Councll on Consumer Interests W 4,300 members.
malnl consumer educators.
Educa-lon t The Catalyst Awards, begun 1n 1957, have honored
134 c-llege, junlor college'and hlgh school teachers a reservolr
of te.chers supportlve of the 1ndustry.
Press tly, 51x natlonal
and 1 reglonal awards are glven each year.
Natloal wlnners
recel a $1,500, a medal and a certlflcate.
Begloal wlnners
resale $500, a medal and a certlflcate.
The Cemlcal Industry
c um: 15 are tled closely to the high school award portlon of
the p ogram, whlch gives cm a communlty base.
Over .000 requests
for 1 formatlon and nomlnatlon toms were recelved 1n 1992 result?
mg 1 17a excellent candldates.
cm h.s now begun 1:: 1993
promo lon throughout the Unlted States and Canada.
AUDIO VISUALS 7 "The Need to Know," a 27>>j7m1nute £11m developed
1n 19.2 about hazardous waste dlsposal, 15 just beglnnlng m be
dlstrbuted m organlzatlons and schools.
Mamba companles
order-d an 15 mm. Verslons and 53 Vldeotapes of "The Need to
Also. cm developed three publlc servlce announcements as
part .5 "The Need to Know" £11m package; "Abandoned Waste Sltes,"
"Clea water 1n Amerlca" and "Waste Dlsposal W Inclneratlon."
More han 7mm of these spots are bemg malled to publlc servlce
dlre or: around the country for use on cable and publlc televlslon.
Quant tles of each Hlth Script and storyboard have been reserved
for sale to members for hand placement :9 thelr local publlc
tale lslon statlons.
"D01 g Somethlng," a 21*m1nute, 15 mm. £11m on the onijob
actl 1t1e5, of speclallsts 1n health and safety areas, has been
(:er lated'to 231 TV statlons mm 1,910,295 estlmated Viewers.
Slnc- the beglnnlng of promotlon of the £11m, a total of 559
£11m have been clrculated to 10,431,135 estlmated Viewers.
Th1: year to date, 2,531 booklngs have been scheduled to
comm nlty audlences mm 159,024 estlmated Viewers. And a total of
7,14-book1ngs have been scheduled mm 429,375 estlmated Vlewers
am 37954
1
5
smc- dlstrlbutlon began 1n 1931.
Membr companles have ordered
277 5 mm. Verslons and 53 Videotapes of the £11m.
"The Chemlcal Balance" 15 a 12*m1nutE, 35 mm. audiowlsual
presntatlon of chemlcal 1ndustry contrlbutlons to people, the
natlun and 1:: management of rlsk.
A ﬁre copy of the sllde show
was 1Ven to each member company.
PUELCATIDNS 7 cm News strlves to keep 1:: 5,000 readers 1n
memb-r companles 1nformed of Assoclatlon actlvltles.
Inc naslngly,
the ubllcatlon 15 golng behlnd the news to explaln the significance
of urrent lssues.
Dur mg the past year, fouripage backgrounders
hav- covered the CMA/EPA Five Plant Study, TSCA, the envlronmeni
:31 st movement and natural gas decontrol.
A q arterly report
sumarlzes cm actlvltles and future plans.
Che cology keeps 1mportant external publlcs 1nfomed about
the 1ndustry's efforts to 1mprove the envlronment and the workplace.
1:: 30,000 readers get the other slde of the story that seldom
app-ars 1n the publlc median
Ba ground papers are prepared on Vital envlronmental lssues
to keep the press and other 1nterested publlcs aware of CMA' s
poltlons and progress.
Re ent backgrounders explaln CMA'S p051*
t on on the need to update the Clean Alr Act and Clean Water Act.
C ‘
MA 037955
AGENDA
MEETING 017 THE cm BOARD 017 ummmns
Monday and Tuesday, January 10 and 11, 1993
Moms Bakar Room. Ocean Reef Club
Kay Largo, Florlda
Call to Order Chalrman Slmeral
STANDING COMMITTEE canmm REPORTS
Dccupatlonal Safety and Health Commlttee
Chemlcal Regulatlons Advlsory Commlttee
Chalman: E. Hamllton Hurst, Nalco Chemlcal Company
4. Patent and Trademark Commlttee
Chalman: Roy H. Massenglll, Allled Cozporatlon
lD:DDrlD:4D
5. 1nternatlonal Trade Commlttee
Chalman: Robert E. Lory, Exxon Chemlcal Company
10:4071190
a. Tax Pollcy Conmllttee
Chalman: Glenn w. whlte. The Dow Chemlcal Company
ll:2Drl2:DD
7. Communlcatlons Commlttee
Chalman: Wllllam M. Metten. Jr., 1:1 Amerlcas Inc.
LUNCH (Ocean Roomy
Th1: Board meetlng Hill contlnue Tuesday,
January 11, 1933, beglnnlng at 9:00 a.m.
1n the Moms Baker Room.
Next Meetlng of the Board of Dlrectors:
CMA Headquarters, Washlngton, u. c.
CMA 037955
Agenda 77 Meeclng of the CMA Board of Dlrectors monunuedy
Opening Remarks and Approval of Mlnutes of
October 5, 1933, Meetlng Chalman Slmeral
Treasurer's Report W G. c. Herman
Report of Executlve Commlttee Chalman Fernandez
Report of Nomlnatlng Commlttee Chalrman Slmeral
Assoclatlon Actlvltles:
TAB
1
Report of the Presldent R. A. Roland
Report of Speclal Programs Advlsory Commlttee
Edward Callahan, Allled Corporatlon
2
I
10:1571090
Member Relatlons v. E. Peterson
3
1
10:2071035
Internatlonal Affalrs Group Etcyl a. Blalr,
The Dow Chemlcal Company
4
10:3571050
Report of Technlcal Dlrector G. v. Cox
5
lmsninms
Report of Dlrector of Government Relatlons
a
n:nsingn
Report of Dlrector of Communlcatlons R. L. mlson
7
11:2071135
Report of General Counsel n. F. 2911
a
I
I
I
I
11:35711:45
New Busmess
11:45
Adjournment
1
I
CMA 037957
2201
MINUTES of the twoihundred nlnetyiflrst meetlng of the Board of Dlrectors of
the Chemlcal Manufacturers Assoclatlon. Inc.: held at the Ocean Reef Club.
Key Largo, Florlda, on Monday at 9:00 a.m. and Tuesday at 9:00 a.m., January
Dlrectors:
Wllllam G. Slmeral. Chalrman
Edwln c. Holmer. Vice Chalrman
Paul F. Hoffman
Dexter F. Baker
Ray R. Iranl
Raymond F. Bentele
A. Clark Johnson
Charles E. Brooke:
John 5. Ludlngton
Barry W. Buchanan
leght c. Mlnton
Carlyle G. Caldwell
Fred H. Montanarl
Lester E. Coleman
Harry Corless
Toy F. Reld
Robert 5. Dudley
Robert A. Roland
Louls Fernandez
Davld L. Rooks
John T. Flies
M. Whltson Sadler
Ales Flam
James F. Schorr
Joseph P. Flannery
A. L. Goeschel
Harold A. Sorgentl
Edward A. Von Doersten
Robert H. Guthell
Konrad M. Wels
James E. Henderson (17
Wllllam G. West
Secretary:
Treasurer:
General Counsel:
Bruce M. Barackman
Gary c. Herrman
Davld F. 2911
By Invltatlon:
Stuart T. Allen, soCMA, E. 1. du Pont de Nemours & Company
E. a, B1311“, The Dow Chemlcal Company 117
Jackson B. Brownlng, Unlon Carblde Cozporatlon 127
Edward w. Callahan, Allled Cozporatlon 117
Geraldlne v. Cox, cm
Robert E. Hampton, 1:1 Amerlcas Inc.
E. Hamllton Hurst, Nalco Chemlcal Company 117
Robert E. Lory, Exxon Chemlcal Company (17
Roy H. Massenglll, Allled Corporatlon m
Wllllam M. Metten. Jr., 1:1 Amerlcas Inc.
Vlctor E. Peterson. cm
James a. Sanger, Monsanto Company
William M. Stover, CMA
Glenn w. Whlte. The Dow Chemlcal Company 117
Rlchard L. Wllson. CMA
m flrst day only
127 second day only
CMA 037959
2202
Monday, January 10, 1993
The meetlng was called to order by Chalrman Slmeral.
STANDING COMMITTEE REPORTS
Executlve summarles are attached 1n lleu of
the complete commlttee reports whlch have
been prevlously dlstrlbuted to the Board.
OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH COMMITTEE
The commlttee report, supplemented mm chalman Ryan's report, 15
attached as Exhlblt A.
CHEMICAL REGULATIONS ADVISORY COMMITTEE
The commlttee report, supplemented mm chalman Hurst's report, 15
attached as Exhlblt B.
PATENT AND TRADEMARK COMMITTEE
The commlttee report, supplemented mm chalman Massenglll's report,
15 attached as Exhibit c.
INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMITTEE
The commlttee report, supplemented mm chalman Lory's report, 15
attached as Exhlblt u.
TAX PoLICy COMMITTEE
The commlttee report, supplemented mm chalman Whlte's report, 15
attached as Exhlblt E.
comwmnmus COMMITTEE
The consnlttee report, supplemented mm chalrman Metten's report, 15
attached as Exhlblt F.
ADDITIONAL REPORTS
The two reports followlng were moved forward from
the Board agenda for Tuesday, January 11, 1933.
SPECIAL pnosmms ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Chalman Callahan dlstrlbuted to those present a revlsed SPAC charter,
Exmm: G, to replace the one contalned 1n Appendlx 1, page 5, of the com?
mlttee report prevlously clrculated to the Board. Thls, along Hlth certaln
CMA 037959
2203
other items, will be presented to the Executlve Commlttee for approval.
He emphaslzed that the chemcakspemnc programs conducted by the com?
mlttee perform front llne servlce for the 1ndustry 1n addresslng product, eni
Vlronmental. and worker safety lssues and thelr relatlonshlp to government
relatlons.
Referrlng m Varlous handouts, he then descrlbed the several roles of
the commlttee as contalned 1n the "purpose" sectlon of the charter; brlefly
dlscussed the reorganlzatlon of SPAC; and concluded mm an overvlew of 1::
future actlvltles.
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS snow
Dr. Blalr expanded on his report, Exhlblt a, by revlewlng the origin
and hlstory of I AG and dlscusslng the Varlous problems bemg addressed by the
group on behalf of the v.5. chemlcal 1ndustry. He concluded Hlth a plea for
Board support for ma actlvltles whlch can have a major unpact on the 1nter7
natlonal movement of chemlcal substances, and Hill requlre, on occaslon, the
presence of ms representatlves 1n other parts of the world.
The Board adjourned untll 9:00 a.m., Tuesday, January 11.
Tuesday, January 11, 1993
MINUTES 017 THE LAST MEETING
The mlnutes of the October 5, 1932, Board meetlng were approved as
dlstrlbuted.
TREASURER'S upon
Mr. Herrman's report 15 attached as Exhibit 1.
Addltlonally, he advlsed
that:
a
Current year expenses contlnue m be controlled at or below the
level 1n the reduced operatlng budget.
a
The communlcatlons assessment, reduced to the 20% level. was
malled the flrst of December. Through January 5, 1933, pay*
ments have been recelved from 107 of our 191 members totalllng
$975,000. Dues Will be sllghtly above budget Since we have re*
celved payments from two members whose payments were 1n doubt at
the tune the amended budget and contlngency plan were prepared.
a
Returns 1n response to the October prellmlnary survey of calendar
year 1992 sales 1nd1cated that CMA dues would be down by 575%
whlch 15 the amount estlmated 1n the contlngency plan.
CMA 037970
2204
The request for actual calendar year 1992 sales has been malled.
The return of thls 1nfomatlon at the earllest posslble date
would be appreclated. The prellmlnary budget should be mallet!
m the Flnance and Executlve Commlttees about February 21 for
revlew at the March 7 and a meetlngs. The Board Will be asked
to revlew and approve a proposed budget and fundlng at the Aprll 5
meetlng.
upon 017 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Chalman Fernandez reported the followlng matters taken up by the Execui
tlve Commlttee the precedlng day:
a
Speclal Programs Advlsory Commlttee
Accepted the recommendatlons
of the Speclal Programs Commlttee that: the exlstence of SPAC be ex*
tended for a year, Exmm: J; the modlfled commlttee charter, Ex*
mm: G, dlstrlbuted m the Board at 1:5 prevlous sesslon, be approved
as proposed; and the proposed program on alkanolamlnes, Exhlblt K,
be approved. The proposed name change for the Blamedlcal and Envlroni
mental Speclal Programs Dlvlslon was not accepted.
a
Hazardous Waste Management
Beard 3 presentatlon of a proposed
longirange plan by the Hazardous Haste Strategy Group on whlch the
chalmen of CMA'S Envlronmental Management, Communlcatlons, and Govern*
ment Relatlons Commlttees serve. The program's objectlve 15 to turn,
the negatlve publlc perceptlon m a more favorable Vlew of the way the
chemlcal 1ndustry 15 handllng waste management. Each member of the
Executlve commlttEE, followlng his company's study of the plan, will
respond to Mr. Roland. The stG, after belng 1nformed of the Vlews of
the Executlve Commlttee. will then submlt for the latter's further
conslderatlon a set of speclflc proposals.
e
Publlc Compensatlon
Beard 3 presentatlon on the publlc compensatlon lssue by the Strateglc Optlons Work Group and the Data Develop*
men: work Group. 1: was declded to contlnue the exlstence of the sows,
augmented mm addltlonal skllls. The uuws Will be placed on hold and
the chalman, Dr. Karrh Will be added to the sows. Data collectlon
Will be suspended pendlng a resolutlon of speclflc strategy alternatlves
m be prepared, not later than the end of February, for Executlve Com?
mlttee conslderatlon.
1
Meanwhlle 1: was agreed that 1: was approprlate for CMA to: support
the Kasten mu whlch would strengthen the present tort system; not
support the asbestos mm and work to ellmlnate the provlslon permlti
ting 1ncluslon of the chemlcal 1ndustry;
press EPA to develop the
data base that would scope the dlmenslons of the health problem whlch
may be related to waste dlsposal sltes; and bulld coalltlons mm
other organlzatlons and 1ndustry groups.
In order to posltlon ourselves more effectlvely to address not only the
publlc compensatlon lssue but also ocher lssues whlch may arlse 1n the
Congress, Mr. Rooks was appolnted to coordlnate efforts, worklng mm
the CMA Government Relatlons Commlttee and staff, to establlsh an in,
dustryiwlde grassroots network.
CMA 037971
2205
Recognlzlng the unportance of speaklng Hlth a unlted Volce the attached
statement. Exhlblt L, prepared at the dlrectlon of the Executlve Com?
mlttee was dlstrlbuted to those present for use 1n respondlng to questlons
regardlng the CMA posltlon on publlc compensatlon.
RESIGNATION 0F DIRECTOR
Chalman Slmeral announced the reslgnatlon of Mr. Drell T. Colllns,
Dlrector of the Assoclatlon, effectlve November 17, 1932.
on MOTION. duly made and seconded,
1: was
voTED: That a. H. Clark. Presldent,
cm, Nalco Chemlcal Company, be elected
to 5111 the Vacancy on the Board and the
Flnance Commlttee through May 31, 1933.
ASSOCIATION ACTIVITIES
Report of the Presldent
a
Mr. Roland revlewed the budget process at cm; the development
of a system of prlorltlzatlon whlch has 1dent1£1ed about 12 major
lssue areas Within whlch the Assoclatlon operates; and the attempt
whlch Will be made to overlay thls on the budget process for flscal
year 1993794.
e
Because CMA'S allocatlon of guaranteed spaces for the Annual Meeti
mg at The Greenbr1Er. June 9710, has been reduced by 100 from last
year. all member companles are urged to reglster as soon as posslble.
The cutoff date for reglstratlons 15 Aprll 1.
e
The Board meetlng next followlng the Annual Meetlng 15 September
1213 at the ClolstEr. Sea Island Georgla. The Semlannual Meeti
mg 1: 1n New York City at the New York Hllton Hotel November 773.
Member Relatlons
Mr. Peterson's report 15 attached as Exhlblt M. Dlstrlbuted to
those present as a matter of 1nfomatlon were Copies of a survey
of chemlcal 1ndustry partlclpatlon 1n state CICs and the Local
Leadershlp Newsletter whlch reports the actlvltles of state organk
zatlons .
Report of Technlcal Dlrector
In expandlng on her report, Exhlblt N, Dr. Cox hlghllghted the
advocacy cm 15 pursulng mm other organlzatlons on envlronmental
matters. She urged that company people be encouraged to joln local
conservatlon groups so that the facts can be brought to llght and
thereby promote a better understandlng and establlsh a more balanced
publlc Vlew of envlronmental lssues.
CMA 037972
2205
Report of Dlrector of Government Relatlons
Mr. Stover's report 15 attached as Exhlblt D.
Report of Dlrector of Communlcatlons
Expandlng on his report, Exhibit F, Mr. mlson advlsed that am
15 In search of positive, dramatlc, human 1nterest storles from
the chemlcal 1ndustry that could be developed 1nto televlslon
scrlpts. He dlstrlbuted to those present a flyer outllnlng thls
project and sollclted speclal storyllnes.
Durlng dlscusslon followlng Mr. Wllson's report, Mr. Sella emphaslzed
the 1mportance of stockholders as a key publlc for CMA'S Communica*
tlons program. Alludlng to several mllllon who could be reached 1n
thls manner, he volunteered to work mm cm staff 1n organlzlng a
program to urge member company declslon makers to undertake stock?
holder malllngs.
Report of General. Counsel
Mr. 2011': report 15 attached as Exhlblt 0.
Bruce M. Barackman
Vice presmenpsecremry
Certlfled correct:
Wllllam G. Slmeral
Chalman of the Board
CMA 037973
exhibit a
OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH COMMITTEE
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
CMA'S Dccupatlonal Safety and Haalth Commlttee msncy has
baan charged by the Board of Dlrectors to develop and recomi
mend pollcles on occupatlonal health, slant safety, flre pro*
tectlon and precautlonary labellng.
Commlttee and task group
members partlclpated 1n a debate on health and safety lssues
affectlng the chemlcal Industry.
Durlng the past year, the commlttee met 1:: goals on ma*
jor regulatory proposals; educated the Dccupatlonal Safety and
Health Admlnatratlon (OSHA) 1n health and safety regulatory
reform; publlclsed responslble workplace practlces employed
throughout our 1ndustry; partlclpated 1n Voluntary standard?
settlng organlsatlons; and worked Hlth congresslonal staff on
lssues of concern to the leglslature.
Some major accompllshi
ments of partlcular note 1nclude;
e
Convlnclng OSHA that 1:: labellng objectlves could be
met through effectlve hasard communlcatlons programs
already 1n use.
The current regulatlon 15 a Slgmsk
cant savlngs over the $14 bllllon estlmated m be the
cost for chemlcal 1ndustry compllance mm a labellng
rule proposed by the last OSHA admlnlstratlon.
e
"Selllng" OSHA on use of balancediperformance stand?
ards.
The commlttee drafted a model standard on
hasardous materlals demonstratlng these prlnclples.
The commlttee also sponsored a semlnar for a large
group of Agency standard wrlters on how to prepare
performance standards.
a
Partlclpatlng actlvely 1n the revlslon of the Agency's
carclnogen pollcy, through wrltten and oral presentai
tlons :9 OSHA.
1:5 advocacy of sound proposals on health and safety
matters won the commlttee professlonal respect and rapport
among OSHA pollcymakers.
Th1: relatlonshlp has been bull: on
solld and tlmely responses to the Agency's questlons and
requests.
By maintaining the Agency's respect and confldence,
053: has been able to provlde inslght and 1mportant 1ndustry
perspectlve m the OSHA Admlnatratlon as 1: develops regula*
tory proposals.
Whlle occupatlonal health lssues recelve much of the hype
and attentlon devoted to workplace practlces, Safety 155“ 5
represent a substantlal component of DSHA'S regulatory pr gram.
Durlng the past year, the 053: advocacy program on
workplace safety was expanded to balance 1:: health lssues
programs.
The commlttee w rked mm OSHA m devel p a tar?
gated safety 1nspect! n5 proposal, and bolstered th
posltlon
CMA 037974
2
through addltlonal eoananta.
Nolse, hazardous saterlals and
sarln" tarmlnals art axasplw of otkmr safety 155m proposals
for whlch CMA provlded consents.
tlnually looklng for ways to 1nprov" congresslonal and Dubllc
understandlng of praetlees and controls used throughout 1ndu57
try to alnlalz" rlsks 1n tha workplace.
The coasltte" worked
mm CMA'S Sovernaent Relatlons Departaent to provlde the
Assoclatlon's Vlews on key lssues, 1nclud1ng hazard coeaualcatlons and cytogenetlc screenlng, m congresslonal eonalttees
mm jurlsdlctlon over 055A.
The coaalttee's work mm CMA'S
Coaaunlcatloas's Departaent has been dlrected toward laprovlng
publlc perceptlon of workplace hazards 1n the ehealcal 1ndu57
try.
1:: Vlews on subjects such as hazard coaaunleatlons.
cancer, and reproductlve hazards provlde balance to health and
safety probleas elalned by labor and publlc 1nterest groups.
The ehealcal 1ndustry's safety record tops by the Ratlonal
Safety Councll 77 serves as a Vehlcle to carry our Vlews on
speclflc regulatory and leglslatlve 1nterests.
Durlng the conlng year, 053: will further strengthen both
1:: health and safety advocacy prograas.
Several key OSHA
proposals aust becoae flnal rules 15 galns ma rm work of
:m past year are to be reallzed.
The coasltte" Will work
mm DSRA to ensure these galns,
when antlclpated regulatlons
aatur" as proposed rules, the coasltte" Hill analyse thea and
suggest reasonable alternatlves where approprlate.
Congress 15 ezpected m approprlate funds for :m occupy
lonal Safety and Health Act 1n 1933.
lbs 053: Hill bg. pre*
.red for any pressure to asend rm Act 1n 3 way that Hill
s.ke compllance sore burdensoae.
Adltlonally, states will be
rvlewlng the adecuacv of state health and safety laws,
1
rsponSE. 053: Hill contlnue to 55515: CMA'S Dovernaent Rely
t ons Departaent by provldlng advocacy aaterlals to state
1 dustry groups.
T- aoet these challenges, the eoanltte" will look for :m
c-ntlnued strong support 1: has recelved ma CMA aeabers and
st.ff la rm past.
1: will rely upon 1:: chlef asset 1:5
delcated aeabers and task groups m aeeoapllsh the objetr
:1 es and Eulflll tbs? needs of our 1ndustry 1n havlng reasoni
ab e controls on workplace practlces.
cm
cm 037975
re ark: m cma board of dlrectors
Ch-lz‘man, Dccupatlonal Safety and Health Commlttee
Ja nary 10, 1993
Dunn; the years 1980 and 91, and 1991792, under the leadershlp of Tom
Ev.n5, the 053 Commlttee of cm was raiorganlzed, raienerglzed, and became
reognlzed by government agencles as a force for 1ndustry representatlon
an cooperatlve effort. mm thls as a foundatlon we declded to look at the
taks for the year 1992793. He declded that, 1n1tlally, we should raievaluate
th current OSHA admlnlstratlon's attltudE. establlsh cooperatlve, nondupllcatlve efforts mm other 1nter71ndustry groups, establlsh strong Communica*
tl-ns mm other CMA commlttees whose work overlapped and 1nfluenced ours, and
co solldate and/or ellmlnate task groups where feaslble.
Th- attltude of the current OSHA admlnlstratlon was succlnctly made clear
to s by a communlcatlon whlch we recelved from Mark (Iowan, the thehineputy
As Stan: Secretary for OSHA. He 531d, "...After years of statlng that 1ndustry
15 1Ven the opportunlty 15 well equipped to address workplace problems, 1ndustry
no , 1n the OSHA area has an opportunlty whlch may never agaln be repeated. The
op-rtunlty exlsts for corporate Amerlca to double and redouble thelr efforts
1n ms Eleld so as to prove 1: can be done wlthout undue government 1nterference.
The chance to demonstrate concluslvely that companles slncerely care about thelr
wor force 15 avaliable. Should thls opportunlty be mlssed, or worse, should
so oratlons through a daiemphasls of safety and health programs give credence
to he allegatlon that the only concern 1n the boardroom 15 proflt, the old OSHA
of ays past will rlse from the grave mm a Vengeance. Now 15 not the tune for
co oratlons to let down thelr guard nor to relax measures whlch have resulted 1n
gal 5 1n the safety and health area."
He elleve that thls gives us a clear 1nd1catlon that the current OSHA
adm nlstratlon Hill contlnue 1n the vem that they have been and that they are
ope for cooperatlve efforts from 1ndustry groups.
He .re redoubllng our efforts to establlsh closer and more efflclent cooper?
tlo Hlth a number of 1ndustry groups. Since numbers of our health and safety
peole serve on task forces Hlth dlverse organlzatlons, we're attemptlng m determlne
who should have the lead role 1n respondlng m 1nd1v1dual OSHA regulatlons 1n an
effurt to minimize the tune, travel and effort requlred of the members of your
so any on these Varlous commlttees. The organlzatlon deemed most approprlate to
preare the prlmary response does so; the other organlzatlons then adapt the response
to helr needs.
He .re 1n the process of ellmlnatlng some task groups and consolldatlng others
and will reduce the number of task groups from 12 m a or 7 1n an effort to stream?
lln' the work of the 053 comklttee and agaln reduce the tune and travel requlred
by ask group members. However, major efforts will contlnue 1n the area of
car 1nogens, reproductlve hazards, resplrators, targetlng health 1nspectlons,
1nd strlal nolsE, perfomance standards, and hazards connunlcatlons, federal and
and state and consunlty.
CMA 037975
2
We ave been 1nvolved Hlth a number of actlvltles mm the government
age ales 1nvolved Hlth health and safety matters, a major theme whlch runs
thr-ughout our responses and testlmony related to all OSHA standards and
reg latlons 15 the theme. Perfomance Standards. We are constantly advlslng
as A to Hrlte thelr standards Hlth the goals and objectlves deslred, the
gen.ral processes and/or strategy, lncludlng work practlces to reach the
gas , and m mlnlmlze the speclflcatlons 1n the materlals and equlpment.
A m.jor effort has been carrled out by the Safety Standards Group 1n
nu area. They have wrltten a model standard for hazardous substances 1n the
wornlaae 1n performance language. At the request of the Asslstant Secretary
for OSHA they have used thls document 1n 3 training sesslon for standards wrlters
1n an effort to educate them 1n the writing of perfomance standards. Th1: has
been well recelved by OSHA and the task group has recelved a letter of thanks
from the Dlrector of OSHA for thelr actlvlty. 1: 15 our hope that mm thls
training effort and 1nteractlon Hlth OSHA, the new standards will be wrltten
1n true performance language.
Another Significant work effort Hlth OSHA has led to the adoptlon of the
Safety Inspectlon Targetlng System for Routlne Safety 1n5pectlons. Th1: enables
OSHA to focus thelr inspectlons on mghmazam 1ndustr1es where they'll do the
most good, and enables those of us mm good safety records to be free of routlne
safety 1n5pectlons.
Work 15 ongolng to apply a Similar methodology for health 1nspectlons, and,
recently two of our members attended an OSHA workshop where an effort was belng
made to devlse such a method. The method recommended by the CMA members appears
to have been favorably recelved by other members of 1ndustry, the muons, and
the governmental agencles. We shall contlnue mm efforts 1n thls area over the
near future.
Another major effort was carrled out on the standard for hazards Communica*
tlon. Th1: culmlnated 1n testlmony by a fourimember panel of cm on June 17, 1932.
/3ur work 1n thls area was completed when postihearlng comments were ﬁlled 1n
September, 1932. As stated prevlously, we're hopeful that a federal standard 1n
thls area will reempt a myrlad of state standards whlch currently exlst from
bemg enforced and also prevent the writing of standards by states and communltles
whlch have not yet done so.
We presented the argument that OSHA has the authorlty m preempt states
standards mm a federal standard on the basls that a myrlad of state standards
will present an undue burden on 1nterstate commerce.
Th1: brlngs me to the area of States Actlvltles Task Group whlch 15 dolng
yeoman work to track and respond to an 1ncreaslng number of state and local 1mm?
tlves deallng mm hazardous substances under worker "rlght to know... and communlty
"rlght to know... statutes. 1: 15 not clear whether the promulgatlon of a federal
hazardous communlcatlon standard will supersede the current states statutes but
the mmmum we hope to achleve 15 to reduce the prollferatlon of further state
and communlty statutes 1n thls area. 1: 15 worthy of note that the State of
Callfornla has already announced thelr posltlon that there 15 no Federal overrlde
so long as the state statute 15 "as strlngent as" the federal. Further, although
the federal statute may affect "worker rlght to know" laws from prollferatlng
we are unsure as to what effect 1: Will have on "communlty rlght to know" standards.
Conslderable work remalns to be done 1n thls area 1n conjunctlon mm the
leglslatlve affalrs commlttee.
cm 037977
The lssue of "managlng reproductlve rlsk 1n the workplace" deserves some
comment. The reproductlve rlsk lssue contlnues to be actlve mm leglslators
and 1n the news medla. As you are probably aware, a recent court declslon 1n the
"01m case"upheld the concept that prohibiting a fertlle female from worklng 1n
an evnlronment whlch 15 harmful to the fetus does not constltute discrimination
on the basls of sex. but 15 a legltlmate work practlce. C.M.A. has had a lead
posltlon on thls lssue for some time and the 053 Commlttee Will be conductlng
a conference on "Managlng Reproductlve Rlsk 1n the Workplace" on May 11 and 12,
1933. 1: will focus on a revlew of the most recent 1nformatlon 1n thls Eleld
mm emphasls on how Varlous companles are addresslng 1:. Attendees will be
restrlcted to C.M.A. members from Varlous llne and staff dlsclpllnes.
In the latter half of 1993, conferences Will be conducted on "Worker Educatlorf'
and on "Process Safety Analysls".
In addresslng the future the commlttee detemlned that 1: needed a better
mechanlsm for "picking and chooslng" from the myrlad of lssues whlch ones 1:
should most approprlately address. In an effort to do thls, we detemlned that
we would look at the lssues presented to us from the Viewpoint of the llkellhood
of thelr occurrence and thelr potentlal unpact on CMA member companles, 155“ 5
Will be submltted m the 053 Commlttee by the redeslgned Future Issues Task
Group, members of the commlttee, and the general membershlp of cm.
1n concluslon. the 053 Commlttee recognlzes that the problem of worker,
communlty and product llablllty whlch 15 currently belng addressed by the
Executlve Commlttee Will be a Very Significant lssue for federal and state
leglslators for some time to come. and Will be 1ntertw1ned Hlth hazardous
substances commumcamon, worker "rlght to know" and communlty "rlght to know"
regulatlons.
am
am 037979
exhibit in
CHEMICAL REGULATIONS ADVISORY COMMITTEE
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Th« Chemlcal Regulatlons Advlsory Commlttee (mum has
developed pollcles on governmental control of chemlcals at the
polnt of manufacture prlmarlly by guiding SPA'S 1mplementatlon
of the Toxlc Substances Control ACt (TSCA7.
TSCA 15 compre*
henslve and slgnlflcantly affects not only our 1ndustry, but
also parts of soclety dependent on chemlcal products.
The
Act's pervaslve impact, therefore, makes effectlve unplementai
tlon a key to managlng the regulatory burden on the productlon
of chemlcal products.
Since TSCA was enacted 1n 1 976, am:
has gulded EPA'S luvplementatlon of the Act malnly bv commenti
mg on, or proposlng major rules.
The Envlronmental Protectlon Agency 13pm unplemented
Very llttle of the Act before 1931.
However. because of the
1ndustry's perslstent 1nteractlon Hlth EPA, many reasonable
procrams are now 1n place or have been proposed.
For example,
several flnal rules on exlstlng chemlcals are conslderably
less burdensome then they mlght have been wlthout CRAC'S es,
forts; negotlated Voluntary tastlng 15 a reallty; the premanu"
facture notlflcatlon 1mm program 15 functlonlng well Hlth
many PMNs ﬁlled on CMA'S PMN fom, and spa has proposed a PMN
exemptlon program for certaln chemlcals W largely 1n response"
to 3 cm petition.
Future cm concerns should focus on how the remalnlng
sectlons of TSCA are unplemented.
For example, the chemlcal
1ndustry needs to work closely mm EPA to ensure that the
Agency's followup programs on new and exlstlng chemlcals are
unplemented soundly.
The next 12 months will be a momentous perlod for cum.
Me have recelved many Signals that TSCA reauthorlsatlon and
overslght actlvltles Will be partlcularly challenglng.
ready, publlc 1nterest groups, such as the Natural Resources
Defense Councll, have announced they will push to amend TSCA
so that 1: Hill requlre base set testlng of chemleals.
1: 15
paramount that am be aware of and effectlvely deal mm both
natlonal and 1nternatlonal attempts to modlfy the Act.
If the
chemlcal 1ndustry plans to survlve these uncertaln economc
tunes and flourlsh 1n the future, TSCA must be unplemented and
admlnlstered falrly and reasonably.
we must he prepared to
meet any challenge that would create addltlonal, and unnece57
sarlly burdensome requlrements.
To prepare for those crltlcal actlvltles, cm: 1n1tlated a
survey to assess what the. 1ndustry has done and 15 dolng to
reduce unreasonable rlsks to health and the envlronment.
cm:
plans to use the survey 1nformatlon 1n the reauthorlxatlon and
cm 037979
2
overslght hearlngs and la aupportlnc CMA" posltlons on rea*
sonable control of chaalcala.
The Infomatlon should also In
Valuable 1n supportlng othsr CMA advoaacy programs on
envlronmental lssues.
cm: 15 commltted m representlng CMA'S 1nterests :9 Spa as 1:
unplements the remalnlng sectlons of T3CA, and to work Hlth
the Agency now and la the future as 1: admlnlsters the law.
Furthermore mm: 15 prepared to dewote 1:5 attentlon and
resources beyond TSCA, as necessary“ to moot the board's
puzpose"
am
am 037990
remarks to cma board of dlrectors
By E. Hamllton Hurst
Chalman, Chemlcal Regulatlons Advlsory Commlttee
January 10, 1993
1: seems llke only a few months ago, I had the pleasure of addresslng thls
group to outllne the actlvltles of your Chemlcal Regulatlon Advlsory Commlttee
(mum. In the interim, we have had a busy but a Very productlve year. I am
pleased to be here once agaln to hlghllght for you what has taken place and
to outllne our plans for the comlng year.
In your praimeetlng books, you Will 61nd a detalled summary of our actlvltles.
Th1: has been prepared by the cm staff whlch has been of great asslstance to
us throughout the year. 2 Will not cover all of the ltems 1ncluded 1n thls
summary as I want to spend my time here dlscusslng the major events and our
future actlvltles.
There are a few key events that dld take place over the last 12 months whlch
deserve a qulck hlghllght. When we talked last, the EPA had, frankly, mply
mented only a portlon of what TSCA Hill ultlmately be. There was much sun
lalsm of the Agency's {allure to 1mplement TSCA. The events of 1992 have
changed that and a great portlon of the proposed rules have been flnallzed
and put 1nto place.
Reportlng Requlrements of TSCA
Productlon, use and exposure data were requlred on 250' chemlcals
by November. 1932.
Health and safety studles were requlred on 159 chemlcals by
December. 1932.
Testlng
For 1932, the court mandated a schedule for EPA to respond Hlth a
declslon to test or not to test 13 XTC’deslgnated chemlcals, the
EFA has made those declslons 1n 11 cases mm 2 others 1mm1nent.
In addltlon m the court ordered schedulE, EPA has made declslons
on a other ITC’deslgnated chemlcals.
Chemlcal Control
Rules for regulatlng PCB'S 1n electrlcal equlpment and excludlng
cm 037991
some closed or controlled waste manufacturlng systems were
flnallzed. A mum PCB regulatlon (scheduled now for December,
19337 will address all other processes whlch generate 1nc1dental
New Chemlcals
Some 2,000 new chemlcals have gone through the PMN process Hlth
only a handful belng regulated. The spa reports that approxy
mately 50% of the PMN'S are of such low rlsk that they can
complete thls revlew 1n about 15 days. Only 3% warrant extenslve
revlew exceedlng 45 days tune, less than 1% have resulted 1n
Either spa orders or were wlthdrawn by the submltter because of
questlons on rlsks assoclated Hlth the chemlcal. The Agency has
responded to CMA'S petition to exempt certaln smallivolume chemi
leals. 51tE*llm1ted 1ntermedlates and polymers from full PMN
revlew. Based on results of thelr PMN revlew experlences, EPA
proposed exemptlon rules 1n August, 1992 whlch should flnallze
by mldiyear 1933.
Since the events I have outllned are EPA actlons and regulatlons at that, you
mlght reasonably ask "Well, what has am: done to earn our pay the EPA
seems to have done all the work and what we have gotten are regulatlons."
I can proudly say we have done a lot. am has had major 1mpact 1n each
of these areas....to our 1ndustry's beneflt.
In the Reportlng Area
For productlon, use and exposure data reportlng, the orlglnal EPA
proposals covered 2,300 chemlcals 7 about 10 tunes what was covered
1n the flnal rule. cm was successful 1n convlnclng EPA they should
ask only for the amount of data they could reasonably handle and
dlgest on a current basls. We were able to avold data gatherlng
for data gatherlng's sake.
The Health and Safety Data
1n the flnallzatlon of these rules. we were successful 1n reduclng
the amount of data to be submltted. we were able to shorten the
hlstorlcal time perlod for whlch each company must revlew thelr
records and submlt data.
Testlng
In the testlng area, productlon, use and test data 1nformatlon
cm 037992
1nput from the 1nd1v1dual companles has resulted 1n 3 number of
declslons by the EPA to not requlre testlng of ITC’deslgnated
chemlcals. In other 1nstances. companles have been able to use
"negotlatlons" to reach agreement Hlth the Agency on what testlng
15 most reasonably requlred. am: has promoted the acceptance of
the "negotlated testlng" concept as a practlcal substltute for
fomal "test rules" under TSCA. Negotlated test agreements save
our resources and result 1n testlng programs whlch focus only on
the most Significant needs.
New Chemlcals
The experlence EPA has now achleved from processlng 2,000+ PMN'S,
has allowed us to lsolate facts from thls data to demonstrate and
convlnce the EPA that exemptlons m the PMN system were needed,
justlfled and would help both 1ndustry and the Agency. mule the
Agency would always llke to have more 1nformatlon and test data
submltted on the PMN, they have developed revlew procedures usmg
PMN 1nfomatlon and structural: slmllarlty studles Hlth whlch they
are satlsfled they can carry out thelr responslbllltles for PMN
revlew under TSCA, 1: was Very refreshlng to hear an EPA spokesman
at a recent presentatlon of thelr PMN system remark "We recogi
nlze that the PMN can be a terrlble burden on new product 1nnovai
tlon. There 15 no way we should expect the development of complete
test data on each new chemlcal at thls stage of thelr development,
nor do we need 1: to make the assessments requlred by TSCA." 7 Here
agaln, the EPA has heard us, We've come a long way baby! at least
mm TSCA. The EPA 15 gettlng practlcal.
mule we have our successeS, we 5:111 have some major obstacles 1n front of
us an 1mportant priorities for 1933.
Overslght hearlngs 7 scheduled for early 1933.
Flnal PMN rules 7 scheduled by the second quarter.
Flnal PMN exemptlon rules 7 scheduled by the mum quarter.
The development of EPA'S approach to asslgn prlorlty to and to regulate
exlstlng chemlcals.
These forthcomlng events dlctate our 1mmedlate plans for the future and 1: Hill
requlre our close attentlon to solldlfy our present galns and m contlnue the
luvplementatlon of TSCA as a workable law.
The most Significant of our future actlvltles 15 also the one we have to tackle
cm 037993
flrst the overslght hearlngs. mule I had a rather uneventful expert
ence of testlfylng before a Senate Subcommltte on Toxlc Substances and
Envlronmental Overslght back 1n August of 1932, the real game will be
played early thls Sprlng, perhaps 1n February or March 1n both the House
and the Senate.
we expect the overslght hearlngs m be partlcularly tough as our opponents
seek to turn around some of the successes we have achleved. Speclflcally,
1n the House before Congressman Florlo's Subcommlttee we expect to see the
followlng lssues to be pushed by the Envlronmentallsts..
TSCA should be amended to requlre testlng of new chemlcals
Since 1ndustry 15 provldlng test data 1n less than 50% of
the cases.
The Agency should not be allowed to accept negotlated testlng
agreements as a substltute for test rules Since these agreements
are unenforceable.
The ability of the Agency to regulate chemlcals under TSCA 15
constralned by the need to balance rlsks and beneflts and make
findings of unreasonable rlsk. Th1: requlres that TSCA be
amended to reduce these constralnts.
The envlronmentallsts have 1nd1cated they 1ntend to open TSCA for amend?
ments and we belleve Congressman Plorlo Will be willing to llsten. Congress
man Florlo has already commlssloned om (Offlce of Technology Assessment v.5. Congress) to make a study on the adequacy of data submltted on a pm.
'In addltlon, he commlssloned the GAO (General Accountlng Offlce7 to study
EPA'S PMN revlew process to 1nclude procedural and pollcy dlfferences
between EPA'S and EEC'S approach. The Senate has commlssloned GAD (General
Accountlng Offlce to study the merlts of negotlated testlng Versus testlng
rules.
So, our work 15 cut out for us, Hlthln am: we have establlshed an Ad Hoc
Overslght Commlttee chalred by myself Hlth Carl Umland of Exxon as ViceChalman. Th1: consul thee, made up of our task group chalman and coordk
hated mm the Government Relatlons Commlttee through our "Key man,"
Jerry Klnney of Dnlon Carblde, 15 preparlng posltlon papers on these lssues
and others. We plan to enllst the help of our frlends on the House Sub?
commlttee to counter the envlronmental leanlngs of Congressman Florlo and
others on the commlttee. We Will welcome any and all help we can get as
we enter thls overslght actlvlty. Our objectlve 15 to avold damaglng
amendments to TSCA.
mule we expect our major confrontatlon Hlth the envlronmentallsts Will be
1n the HouSE, the cllmate 1n the Senate 15 also not the most deslrable.
Though the Senate Subcommlttee 1: controlled by Republlcans, the speclflc
members have envlronmental 1nterests and He Will agaln need to be well
prepared.
As part of our preparatlon for overslght, and for use 1n other publlc arenas,
we are completlng our survey on "chemlcal company actlvlty to reduce unreai
sonable rlsk.“ Th1: survey, whlch your executlve commlttee approved at our
Fall meetlng 1n Chlcago should provlde Valuable 1nfomatlon for use at the
hearlngs to demonstrate that 1ndustry on 1:: own has taken the actlon needed
to reduce unreasonable rlsks and that the "Spirit of TSCA" 15 worklng.
Furthermore, the data should help us indicate that Significant changes to the
law are unnecessary.
We have over 100 companles partlclpatlng 1n the survey so we belleve the
results will be credltable. Inltlal results appear to be followlng the
pattern seen 1n the pilot survey whlch we completed early 1n 1932. The
companles have sent 1n thelr responses and our contractor 15 tabulatlng the
1nfomatlon for us now. We expect to have an initial tabulatlon of the
results by January 19th for our revlew. of course He Will forward a copy
of the results of thls survey to you prior to announclng 1: m the publlc.
We expect He Will be ready for publlc release around February 15:.
Gettlng back to the regulatory slde of our operatlons, the Agency has
announced they 1ntend m publlsh flnal PMN rules by Aprll, 1993 and are
preparlng an actlve followup program for certaln new chemlcals. We have
reason to belleve the Agency has agaln heard us and will "back off" from
the extenslve PMN toms orlglnally proposed. mule we have urged the Agency
not to adopt a "fom," we expect they will requlre one to encourage sonny
tency and organlzatlon of the PMN data. We Will be endeavorlng to agaln
provlde 1mpact 1n the development of the flnal form.
We expect to followup actlvlty Will be based upon the luvplementatlon of
Significant New Use Rules (smmsy and the Varlous reportlng rules for
chemlcals 1n commerclal productlon. We could see some of these followup
programs early thls year. We expect these will be used 1n only a handful
of cases but we are actlvely worklng to assure the crlterla used to 1n1tlate
thls actlvltles are acceptable.
The PMN exemptlon proposal put forth by the EPA follows, for the most part,
the concepts offered by cm 1n 1:: petltlon. Where the Agency has proposed
more extenslve and burdensome approaches, we have reacted through comments,
testlmony and facsitoifaee dlscusslon to offer alternatlves whlch Hill
achleve the EPA'S and 1ndustry's goals. We expect flnal rules on exemptlons
by mldiyear and our New Chemlal Task Group now chalred by Jerry Hapka of
DuPont Will be worklng m brlng these to frultlon.
cm 037995
The last major regulatory objectlve under TSCA Will be the establlshment
of proper crlterla to select and give prlorlty to those chemlcals whlch
may become the subject of regulatlon. Th1: 15 a part of TSCA under whlch
the Agency 15 5:111 under crltlclsm Since there have been no flnal rules
regulatlng chemlcals under TSCA other than PCS'S whlch was wrltten 1nto
the Act 1tself. The Agency 15 worklng to develop a process for exlstlng
chemlcals now. Zn the past year we establlshed under cm: a new task group
chalred by Fred Hoerger of Dow to work mm the spa on thls process develop*
ment. There are 3 or 4 chemlcals that spa 15 now revlewlng and we could
expect one or more of these to be the subject of proposed rules by the end
of 1993 or early 1994 controlllng some aspects of productlon, processlng,
dlstrlbutlon, use or dlsposal. He belleve we are 1n 3 posltlon to make thls
process a reasonable one as 1: 15 developed.
In summary, 1992 saw major advances 1n the 1mplementatlon of TSCA and major
progress on the part of the EPA 1n maklng the flnal rules and procedures
much more reasonable. CRAC, through 1:: 15 actlve members and the excellent
cm staff support we have recelved, has been 1nstrumental 1n achlevlng thls.
We 531d last year that a wlndow exlsted Hlth thls Admlnlstratlon to make
Significant advances 1n unplementlng TSCA 1n 3 reasonstle way. we have gotten
number of rules through that wlndow.‘
1993 will present new challenges, the most crltlcal of whlch W111 be our
overslght hearlngs where we must hold our ground and solldlfy the galns we
have made. We 5:111 belleve TSCA 15 a workable law when 1mplemented 1n 3
reasonable and tlmely fashlon. We Will need to demonstrate that 1: 15
worklng and that the goals of TSCA to reduce unreasonable rlsk are bemg
achleved. We Will not seek to reopen TSCA for aslendment, however, should thls
occur. we are prepared to offer our suggested 1mprovements.
I have had the pleasure of chairing the cm: Comlttee for the past year and a
half and will complete thls asslgnment and my fourth year of cm: membershlp
1n June. I thank you for the support you have given to your commlttee and to
me personally. The work of mm: was needed. am: has been and contlnues to
be effectlve 1n achlevlng 1ndustry's goals to make TSCA a workable law as 1:
15 1mplemented.
am
am 037995
EXHIBIT c
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
In 1992/ CMA. through the Patent and Trademark Commlttee (mum, has been
an 1nstrumental Volce 1n provldlng 1ndustry 1nput m the v.5. Government In the
development of 1:5 patent pollcles at home and abroad? The PATC has also
advocated CMA posltlons, as approprlate, dlrectly mm forelgn authorltles.
Durlng the past year, am, through the PATC, has obtalned 1ncreased
Visibility and respect 1n the 1ndustrlal property rlghts area. Congresslonal
and Agency staff persons SDllClt CMA'S comments on pendlng domestlc leglsi
15mm, antlclpated regulatory changes, and 1nternatlonal negotlatlons.
Commlttee members. 1n addltlon m preparlng wrltten comments for submlsslon
by cm, have. for example, testlfled before the Patent and Trademark Offlce
on a proposed rulemaklng and have served as 1ndustry advlsors m the Dlplomatlc
Conferences held thls year 1n Geneva, Swltzerland on proposed revlslons
to the 1nternatlonal treaty on 1ndustrlal property rlghts (commonly known as
the "Parls Conventlon"7. In all these forums, the Commlttee has stressed
the 1mportance of strengthened patent protectlon to technologlcal advancement
and economlc recovery.
And. perhaps as Significant 1n thls time of economlc dlfflcultles, the
Patent and Trademark Commlttee has Eulfllled 1:: 1992 actlvltles mm almost
no expendltures for outslde asslstance, elther technlcal or legal. mm
one mlnor exceptlon, all wrltten comments were prepared and advocacy actlvltles
carrled out by Commlttee members, other deslgnated cm member company
representatlves, and cm staff. We also do not antlclpate any major outslde
asslstance expenses curlng 1933.
Flnally, the PATC belleves that an 1mportant part of 1:5 role has 1n
communlcatlon mm all CMA member companles, both through the CMA Board
of Dlrectors and through other member company representatlves, on develop*
ments 1n the 1ndustrlal property rlghts area. We, therefore, work to
1ncrease awareness of the unportance of these lssues among member companles
and. 1n return. to obtaln an understandlng of member company posltlons on
these lssues. Armed mm thls 1nformat10n, the Commlttee 15 able to
fomulate proposed cm posltlons for Board approval. In thls communlcatlons
role 1n 1932, the PATC has 1nfomed the Board of a number of patent lssues,
1nclud1ng Parls Conventlon developments; has held an open Commlttee meetlng;
and has communlcated mm member companles through such mechanlsms as Actlon
Advlsorles and newsletters.
Th1: Executlve Summary has been excerpted from page two of the followlng
Report. the sectlon entltled "Patent and Trademark Commlttee Actlvltles and
Accompllshments, Overvlew." .
1
am
am 037997
REMARKS TD cm 13mm: 017 ummmns
By Roy H. Massenglll
Chalman, Patent and Trademark Commlttee
January 10, 1993
The year 1992 has marked three major mllestones 1n the reform and
luvprovement of the patent system better to meet the needs of fosterlng techno?
loglcal progress. Procedures are now 1n place to obtaln a hlgher quallty patent
before lssuance, to obtaln less costly detemlnatlons of patent Valldlty
wlthout expenslve lltlgatlon and m obtaln more certaln appllcatlon of the
patent laws 1n litigation. Progress has been more dlfflcult 1n changlng the
substantlve law to restore a full patent tam for products whose 1ntroductlon
has been subject to regulatory delay. Unfavorable changes 1n domestlc federal
law to regulate contracts Hlth employed 1nventors have been averted, so far.
Attempts by developmg countrles to force early consulsory llcenslng or can*
cellatlon of patents have also been put off, so far. The year 1993 Hill brlng
renewed dlscusslon on all three of these substantlve matters: patent
tam restoratlon, employed 1nventors contracts, and compulsory llcenslng of
patents 1n mum world countrles. 1: Will also brlng, we hope, renewed
dlscusslon of two changes 1n the substantlve v.5. patent law regardlng 1nteri
natlonal trade, and renewed dlscusslon about 1nterference practlce, 1nventorsh1p
1n the corporate settlng and other matters. Your cm Patent and Trademark
Commlttee Will work to help formulate and enunclate CMA pollcy on these lssues
and m communlcate Hlth cm member companles on developments 1n these areas.
1. PATENT REFORM
A. Examlnatlon. Many cospanles can expect patent costs to go up next
year because of the v.5. Patent and Trademark Offlce 1mm fee 1ncrease5,
effectlve October 1, 1932, that represent the flrst fee 1ncrease 1n almost
20 years. In comblnatlon mm new management at the v.5. Patent and Trademark
0661CE, the hlrlng of more Examlners, better Examlner tralnlng, better malni
tenance of the search Ella: and an overdue trlal of automated searchlng,
these fees will, we hope, brlng a steady unprovement 1n the system under
whlch patents are granted and trademarks are reglstered 1n the v.5. We
expect several procedural changes to be dlscussed next year that will enable
the addltlonal resources to be used to shorten the perlod 1: takes to
lssue a patent or reglster a trademark, whlle reduclng the proportlon that
are lssued unproperly because of such curable errors as prior art references
mlsslng from the patent examlner's search Elle.
B. Alternatlve to Litigation. The reexamlnatlon system now 1n place 15
deslgned to provlde a qulck and lowicost admlnlstratlve procedure to have an
lssued patent revlewed by the PTO for patentablllty agalnst prlnted prior
art raising a new questlon of Valldlty. mule the courts seem, 1n general,
Hllllng to defer to the Patent Offlce on such lssues, the use of reexamlnatlon
has been less than had been predlcted by 1:: proponents. Perhaps more time 15
needed for patent owners and others to use thls system more regularly as an
alternatlve to litigation, 1n any event, recent leglslatlon has opened up
lssues of patent Valldlty and 1nfr1ngement as proper subjects for arbltratlon.
1
cm 037999
2
By next year, we should begln to know whether or not thls new alternatlve to
expenslve patent lltlgatlon Will be used wldely. Arbltratlon may be the
preferred route for decldlng 15 sensltlve commerclal actlvlty 1nvalldates a
patent on Either prior use or best mode grounds, or avolds 1nfr1ngement for
technlcal reasons whlch nelther party wlshes m be made publlc. Reexamlnatlon
Hill remaln the nonilltlgatlon alternatlve for deallng Hlth prlnted prior art.
a. thlgatlon Improvement. A major change 1n 1992 has been the creatlon
of the Court of Appeals for the Federal Clrcult, whlch has appellate jurlsdlctlon
over all cases arising under the patent laws, as well as over appeals from the
Patent and Trademark Offlce. By developlng a unlfom body of 1nterpretatlons,
1: 15 hoped that thls court will ellmlnate forum shopplng 1n patent litigation.
Because the Court was formed by the merger of 117 one court mm experlence
1n appeals from the Patent and Trademark Offlce and from the Internatlonal
Trade Commlsslon and (27 another court mm experlence 1n clalms agalnst the
Government, thls new Appeals Court can be expected to show a hlgh level of
understandlng of the technlcal and commerclal significance of patents.
11. LEGISLATION CARRIED own
A. Patent Tenn Restoratlon. The blggest dlsappolntment thls year has
been the fallure to enact leglslatlon extendlng the tem of patents whose
effectlve tam has been eroded by years of regulatory delay. A5 mck
Waterman reported to you last year, the cm Patent and Trademark Commlttee had a
prlnclpal role 1n draftlng thls leglslatlve proposal. Followlng the lead
of the Phamaceutlcal Manufacturers Assoclatlon. we hope to push thls mu
1nto law durlng the next Congress; the press of other busmess and opposltlon
by key Senators and Congressmen prevented thls mm from belng enacted 1n
spite of majorlty support 1n both Houses.
B. Employed Inventors' Agreements. Two attempts were made last year
to regulate by Federal law the contractual relatlonshlp between employed
, 1nventors and thelr enployers. We expect these efforts to 1ntenslfy next year,
partlcularly 1n the area of deflnlng flelds 1n whlch the employee's 1nventlons
are asslgned to his employer and other flelds 1n whlch the employer has
no 1nvestment. The toplc of statutory compensatlon to employees when thelr
1nventlons are used commerclally Will also be ralsed. These lssues Will
be monltored closely,and reconmlendatlons for CMA posltlons Will be made,
15 Congress seems llkely to act on Either proposal.
III. INTERNATIONAL 7 1992 DEVELOPMENTS
The major developments on the 1nternatlonal front have been recent attempts
by developlng countrles to revlse the Parls Conventlon, the baslc 1nternatlonal
treaty regardlng patent flllng, to permit a country to order cancellatlon or
compulsory llcenslng of a patent not locally worked Within a few years.
mule the v.5. Government has been supportlve of 1ndustry 1n opposmg these
proposals, we have had to work mm our counterparts 1n Europe to encourage
thelr governments to take a slmllar stand.
cm 037999
I
I
x
a
3
1993
A. Changes 1n the v.5. Substantlve Law Regardlng Extraterrltorlal
Appllcatlon of v.5. Patents. There are two provlslons of v.5. patent law
whlch dlffer from the laws of most other countrles 1n 3 way that places a
v.5. manufacturer at a competltlve dlsadvantage 1n 1nternatlonal trade, when
his sole patent protectlon relates to 1mproved processes for maklng known
products, as 1: often the case 1n the chemlcal 1ndustry, he cannot use the
courts to challenge those practicing the process abroad and importing the
product. 315 remedy before the Internatlonal Trade Commlsslon has many other
condltlons, unrelated to patent lssues, that he would not have to meet 1n 3
normal clvll actlon. An analogous provlslon of v.5. law provldes no effectlve
remedy for the holder of a patent on a machlne havlng several components
agalnst another party who manufactures the consonants 1n the v.5. for
assembly abroad. We Will be revlewlng proposed leglslatlon next year to
remedy both of these problems.
B. Changes 1n Interference Practlce. We Will also be revlewlng
proposals to recom the 1nterference practlce used by the v.5. Patent and
Trademark Offlce m determlne prlorlty among 1nventors Claiming the same
inventlon 1n order m expedlte these determlnatlons. A symptom of problems
1n thls area 15 that a patent 15 now 155mm; on crystalllne polypropylene that
could be enforceable untll the end of the century.
c. Other Issues. Other areas that we plan to revlew are the treatment
of related 1nventlons by dlfferent comblnatlons of 1nventors 1n the ozporate
settlng; unlform pollcles for ownershlp of patents, data and software
resultlng from governmentifunded research; and the posslble luvplementatlon
of the examlnatlon chapter of the Patent Cooperatlon Treaty.
coucmsmu
The current polltlcal cllmate represents an unprecedented opportunlty
m recom the entlre patent system 1n the v.5. to make patents rellable
assets for 1nvestors 1n technology. The 1ncreased costs and delays 5550*
elated mm brlnglng 1nnovat1ve products and processes to market make the
need for enforceable patents and affordable enforcement procedures more
urgent. We hope that 1993 brlngs contlnued luvprovements 1n these areas
domestlcally, together mm renewed efforts to prevent an eroslon of the
patent system 1n the 1nternatlonal context.
CMA
CMA 037990
EXHIBIT u
SUMMARY OF
INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMITTEE
upon TD cm 13mm:
January 10, 1993
mm chemlcal exports deerseelng and lsports 1ncreaslng 1n 3 world
swinging toward nor“ protectlonlsm, tha mlsslon of CMA'S Internatlonal
Trade conmlttee 15 to further the 1ndustry's ability to oon$>ete by work?
mg to decrease unfalr trade*related unpedlments to ccepetltlon 1n the
Major 1992 acoonvllahments of the commlttee and 1:5 Elva task
grolns are grouped under task group headlngs:
Investment Pollcy: Revlewed and related to v.5. Trade Representai
tlve 1ndustry Vlews on model bllateral 1nvestment treaty and two trestle:
speclflc to Egypt and Panama.
InteriGovernmental: Supported Coalltlon posltlon on Vredellng prof
posal whlch. 1n 1:: current amended Verslon. was a Victory for v.5. multk
natlonals. Worked to moderate Unlted Natlons actlvltles affectlng chemlcal
trade and 1nvestment.
Import Pollcy: Began development of posltlon on Generallzed System
of Preferences, kept membershlp 1nfomed of tarlff "harmonlzatlon" 1nclud1ng
sponsorshlp of a semlnar, followed Admlnlstratlon' a Carlbbean Basln. Inltlai
tlve and Export Tradlng Company Act.
Export Pollcy: Supported Danforth "reclproclty... leglslatlve effort
and developed posltlons on 1ntellectual property rlghts and antliboycott
regulatlons.
Export of Hazardous Substances: Effectlvely worked to move accept*
able report draft through Departoents of state and Cosmerce and the USTB
whlch led to draft of an Executlve Order from the Whlte House.
In addltlon to these task group’speclflc lssues, the commlttee was
actlve 1n other areas.
Prlmary among these was petrochemlcalirelated dlscusslons between
the v.5. government and those of Europe, Japan and Mexlco.
Representlng the commlttee as well as thelr 1nd1v1dual companles, mem*
bers asslsted to the degree posslble Hlth 51x separate government agency
studles concernlng petrochemlcal "competltlveness" and revlewed an Amerlcan.
Enterprlse Instltute proposal for an overvlew study of v.5. trade pollcy.
To facllltate communlcatlon mm member company trade contacts, a com?
pendlum of commlttee poslton and background papers was lssued at our
CMA 037991
October open nestlng and subsequently malled to ITC task group members.
For 199v tha commlttee sees 1tself actlvely 1nvolvad 1n addltonal
patroehamlcal dlscusslons. mm tha laglalatlva and regulatory phaaaa
of tha erport of hazardous substances, Hlth Generallzed System of Frafarancaa pollcy foxaulaton, mm reclproclty leglslatlon, and 1nvestaasntralatad laauea.
tha cojmlttaa and 1:5 task groups Bra welliposltloned to further
1nduatry trade*ralatad aaada. However, commlttee thllra feel strongly
that Dtt member coavanles currently havlng llttle 1n the way of trade
expertlee should seriously aonalder developmg 1:. Zshortance of trade
matters. far from fadlng away, will 1ncrease slgnlflcantly 1n the aoatha
and years ahead
CMA
CMA 037992
REMARKS TD CMA BOARD
BY ROBERT E.
CHAIRMAN. INTERNATIONAL
JANUARY 10,
0F ummmns
LDRY
TRADE COMMITTEE
1993
Th1: mornlng I'll be reportlng to you on the work of CMA'S Internatlonal
Trade Commlttee 1n 1992, the second year of 1:5 fomal exlstence. It's
obvlous to all of us that 1n recent years chemlcal 1ndustry sales and
earnlngs have depended upon large Volumes of exports. Three measurements
currently, however, are on an unfortunate downtrend.
In 1991 the dollar value of v.5. chemlcal exports was 521.2 bllllon,
1n 1992 the value sllpped to $20.4.bllllon.
For two consecutlve years, the trade surplus 1n chemlcals the excess
of exports over unports has decreased. The 1980, 1991 and 1992 dollar
Values were. respectlvely: 512.2 bllllon, 511.9 bllllon and 510.9 bllllon.
Over the same twoiyear span, the share of 1ndustry sales golng m the
export trade has decllned from 12.9 percent to 11.9 percent.
The two Sides of our current trade reallty are clear: chemlcal exports
are decreaslng whlle at the same time 1mports are on the rlse.
There's another trade reallty that the v.5. chemlcal 1ndustry has to
reckon mm as well, and that 15 the swlng toward protectlonlsm we are
seemg all around the globe 7~ 1nclud1ng the v.5. Th1: 1ndustry 15
confldent of 1:5 ability to compete 1n world trade m the extent that
we are not blocked from dolng so by governmental barrlers, whether the
government be our own or that of a forelgn country. mule the words
of the Internatlonal Trade Cosnlttee's charter may say 1: more color?
fully, a shortitext Verslon of our mlsslon 15 to work to remove exlstlng
barrlers and m derall attempts to create new ones.
mm thls mlsslon as our focus. thls mornlng I'll be coverlng what I
see as the Commlttee's major accompllshments durlng the year and the
major lssues before us 1n 1933.
Flrst a word on organlzatlon.
In 1992 two task groups were refocused and a new task group created
brlnglng our task group number to Elva, we broadened the mlsslon of the
North Amerlcan Trade Pollcy Task Group to 1nclude all unport matters
affectlng cm member companles. The task group's name was changed to
Import Pollcy Task Groupi. We expanded the membershlp of our Multlnatlonal
Cozporatlons Task Group and changed 1:: name to the Intergovernmental
Drganlzatlons Task Group to better reflect 1:5 proper focus. Early 1n
CMA 037993
the year we formed an Investment Pollcy task Group to more adequately
cover thls pollcy area and m provlde support :9 Dexter Baker who 15 now
Chalman of the Investment Pollcy Advlsory commlttee set up by the Trade
Representatlve's offlce.
Slnce I plan to cover 1992 accompllshments by task group area of concern,
the Investment Group 15 a good place to start. Shortly after 1:: fomatlon,
the group focused on the subject of bllateral 1nvestment treatles.
Through 1:: work, we were able to give the Assoclatlon's Vlew on a model
treaty to Unlted States Trade Representatlve msmy Ambassador Brock.
Investment trestle: speclflc to Egypt and Panama were also dlscussed
mm usm.
Th1: group also prepared and dlstrlbuted to member companles a survey on
forelgn 1nvestment m provlde the commlttee mm member 1nput on speclflc
problem areas that should be addressed. Flftyithree companles responded,
and the data provlded 15 now belng analyzed by the task group.
I
Turnlng to the Intergovernmental Task Group, a maln concern of 1:: members
last year was the scicalled "Vredellng Proposal" 1n the European coonunlty.
As Leo Johnstone reported to you 1n October, the thenicurrent draft of
the proposal called for advance consultatlon Hlth workers on a Varlety of
management declslons 1nclud1ng 1nvestments 1n other parts of the world.
The Assoclatlon supported the jolnt Natlonal Forelgn Trade Counsll/U.S.
Councll posltlon on the lssue and the heavlly amended Verslon that was
approved by the European Parllament was clearly a defeat for 1:: hackers
and was vlewed as resultlng from effectlve lobbylng by v.5. multlnatlonals.
A major reason behlnd the formatlon of thls task group was the Varlety
of actlvltles concernlng 1nternatlonal companles golng on 1n Varlous
agencles of the Unlted Natlons. Durlng 1992 these actlvltles were priory
tlzed from the v.5. chemlcal 1ndustry perspectlve, and a number of meetlngs
mm mm. offlclals took place 1nclud1ng one mm v.5. Ambassador
Klrkpatrlck.
Whlle developmg countrles often seem to be the loudest Volces 1n the u.u.,
they are also loud 1n thelr demands for speclal treatment by 1nd1v1dual
1ndustrlallzed countrles W notably the Unlted States and partlcularly
mm respect to our treatment of the products they wlsh us to unport.
The General System of Preferences (Gs?) 15 an 1mportant v.5. recognltlon
of thls demand. The system offers dutyifree entry of a Wide Varlety of
commodlty and flnlshed goods. asp became effectlve January 4, 197a and
Hill explre on January 3, 1935. The vsm admlnlsters asp and 1: and the
Congress are expected to be holdlng hearlngs thls year on 1:: renewal.
Preparatory to our actlve 1nvolvement mm thls issue, the Import Pollcy
Task Group prepared and dlstrlbuted to selected CMA members a questlonnalre
deslgned to gather data on member awareness of and concern about 65?.
Our posltlon 15 now 1n the early development stage.
I
1
1
CMA 037994
The v.5. tarlff schedule 1n general 15 gettlng cm attentlon due to the
program to "harmonlze" our schedule mm the Customs Cozporatlon Councll
Nomenclature. whlch 15 used by most of the world...s other 1ndustrlallzed
natlons. Late 1n 1992, the Internatlonal Trade Commlsslon released
Chapters 29 and 29 of the new code. These deal Hlth commodlty 1norgan1c
and organlc chemlcals, respectlvely. Chapters 30739, deallng mm enduse chemlcal products, are expected to be released 1n February. The
entlre project 1: Scheduled to be concluded by July 1, 1933, mm mply
mentatlon of the new hamonlzed code set for m1d71985. Whlle unable to
take posltlons on 1nd1v1dual products, cm recognlzes 1:5 potentlal
1mportance to members as some products will see Significant tarlff 1ncreases
or decreases. Because of this, we sponsored mm 50cm and 5P1 a
trade semlnar on the subject that was attended by 45 1ndustry representatlves.
We Will contlnue to supply tlmely 1nfomatlon and procedural guldance to
member companles.
on a matter speclflc m thls hemlsphere, the Import Pollcy Task Group
revlewed the Admlnlstratlon's "Carlbbean Basln Initiative" whlch was a
threejoronged program of trade, tax 1ncent1ves and supplemental am to
the Carlbbean Basln countrles to 55515: thelr economc progress. CMA
dld not take a posltlon on thls subject, 1n that the mu currently
drafted does not offer Significant chemlcal 1nvestment potentlal Either
as an opportunlty or threat for v.5. producers. However, we contlnue m
monltor the blll's progress.
Another piece of leglslatlon on whlch we took no speclflc posltlon was
the Export Tradlng Company Act, whlch 15 now law. Th1: leglslatlon may,
however. be helpful to smaller companles, and through the cm News, we
1nfomed members who mlght be 1nterested 1n the subject about Commerce
Department and v.5. Chamber semlnars deallng Hlth 1:.
Durlng 1932, a host of protectlonlst crles were ralsed 1n Washlngton,
many of whlch promlnently featured a new buzzword, "reclproclty". Our
Export Pollcy Task Group was actlve 1n an 1ndustry Coalltlon supportlng
Senator Danforth's blll 15. 20947 whlch provldes for extendlng Sectlon 301
of the trade law to cover servlceS, 1ntellectual property rlghts, and
forelgn threat 1nvestment. In July, CMA endorsement of the Danforth mu
wlthout amendments was sent to the Senate Flnance Commlttee. No
real actlon took place on thls mu 1n 1932, but I'll consent further on
1:: outlook when I cover 1993 lssues.
A posltlon speclflc to the protectlon of 1ntellectual property rlghts was
developed and forwarded to Commerce Secretary Baldrlge. The Export Task
Group also prepared a posltlon deallng Hlth antkboycott regulatlons;
thls, however. has not been lssued externally as yet, as we are awaiting
actlon by the Buslness Roundtable and the v.5. Chamber, who have the leads
on thls issue.
CMA 037995
Our new task group has bean deallng mm one speclflc pollcy lssue
that of the export of scicalled "hazardous substances". The resclndlng of
Presldent Carter's overly restrlctlve Executlve Order was a threat result
of chemlcal 1ndustry efforts, and a number of CMA suggestlons have been
1ncozporated 1n the present acceptable form of the proposed new order now
1n the Whlte House. Our objectlve all along has been to keep thls as a
slmple notlflcatlon scheme wlthout any form of government control and
not tled m speclflc shlpments. So far, we've succeeded. To put the
1ndustry stake here 1n perspectlve, the wrong outcome on thls one would
1mmedlately put 1nto jeopardy some half bllllon dollars worth of pestlcldes
exports.
In addltlon to lssues worked mostly Within our task groups, the Commlttee
has been actlve 1n 3 number of other areas.
A prlmary area of actlvlty has centered on petrochemlcal dlscusslons
between the v.5. and other governments. Whlle dlscusslons Hlth the Cannon
Market were dormant durlng 1992, cm provlded two groups of advlsors to
35515: the 0.5. Trade Representatlve and the Department of commerce,
respectlvely, 1n preparlng for and carrylng out talks Hlth Japan and Mexlco,
u.s. efforts 1n the Japanese talks were dlrected toward glvlng them a
better understandlng of what they consldered to be our unnatural advantage
1n natural gas prlclng. Mexlcan focus, whlle not yet clarlfled, 1:
expected to be on the export of thelr products 1nto the v.5. Leo Johnstone
has led the Cmiflelded groups of 1ndustry advlsors Hlth excellent results
to date. mm respect to the Mexlcan talks, the Commlttee formulated a
set of proposed v.5. objectlves and passed these to Commerce.
One thlng these dlscusslon actlvltles hlghllght 15 that v.5. 1ndustry,
mm all 1:: problems, 15 far from belng alone 1n searchlng for solutlons.
Last month. delegatlons from cm and CEFIC met at the Europeans'
request to dlscuss common Vlews mm respect to a number of 1nter7
natlonal trade matters.
A famlllar response to a percelved problem 15 m 1n1tlate a study. Durlng
1932, 51x separate studles regardlng Varlous aspects of petrochemlcal
"competltlveness" were progressed by Varlous v.5. agencles. These 1nclude
the Commerce Department, the Internatlonal Trade Commlsslon (two studlesy,
the usm, the World Bank/IMF, and the Offlce of Technology Assessment.
The commlttee and member companles asslsted m the degree posslble mm
each. In connectlon Hlth one of the Internatlonal Trade Commlsslon studles
on 1nvestment perfomance requlrements the Commlttee prepared a
"statement for the record" on the shorticomlngs of the questlonnalre
deslgned m provlde 1:: data base. The "use" of these Varlous studles
bureaucratlc study often 15 not a precursor to but, more tunes than not,
a substltute for meanlngful actlon.
CMA 037995
If these governmentqmuated studles were not enough, last year the
Commlttee reported to you that we were worklng to develop a study of the
chemlcal 1ndustry's 1nternatlonal trade problems. Th1: was dropped as a
chemlcal 1ndustry project, but an ad hoc group of 1ndustry members have
1nterested the Amerlcan Enterprlse Instltute 1n conductlng a wlder study
of v.5. trade pollcy. am has revlewed and taken no exceptlon to the
initial effort to scope the study. The Assoclatlon Will not be partlclpatlng
as a flnanclal supportervhth governmental and medla 1nterest 1n trade at seemlngly an 5117mm
mgh, the Commlttee felt 1: worthwhlle to develop for 1:: own use a set
of general communlcatlon guldellnes whlch put current and future trade
pollcy matters 1n perspectlve.
on a related toplc, the development of posltlons 15 effectlve only 1nsofar
as they are communlcated. In addltlon m the speclflc targetlng of posltlon
papers I've mentloned ear11Er, late last year the Commlttee put together
a compendlum of 1:5 posltlons and background papers. Th1: was dlstrlbuted
at our October Open Meetlng and subsequently mallet! to each member company
trade contact. Addltlonally, throughout the year, trade contacts were
provlded mm 1nformatlon on a Wide Varlety of trade related toplcs.
What's ahead for us thls year?
The short answer 15 more of the same.
Governmentitoigovernment petrochemlcal dlscusslons 5:111 Will be mm us,
Mexlco 15 currently antlclpated m be the most unportant 1n 1933, but Japan
talks could be reqnsututed at any tune. Canada also at any tune could
1n1tlate a request for dlscusslons. Whlle 1n recent months European
talks have been dormant. these too could awaken.
mm respect to the Export of Hazardous Substances lssue should the
Presldentlal Executlve Order be, as we expect, acceptable to 1ndustry, thls
subject will 5:111 demand close CMA scrutlny 1n 1:: subsequent leglslatlve
and regulatory phases.
We also will be closely monltorlng developments as osm and Congress
formulate thelr pollcles regardlng renewal of the Generallsed System of
Preferences.
We can expect protectlonlst Volces to contlnue calllng for reclproclty
leglslatlon. mm other groups, CMA Hill contlnue to push for s. 2094
wlthout amendments. Th1: isn't golng to be easy, and I can't say the
outlook 15 Very favorable.
We Will contlnue to work closely Hlth vsm and others as approprlate on
Ellateral Investment Trestle: and other 1nvestment related lssues.
4
CMA 037997
The mu. moves slowly, but given 1:: role as a forum for developmg
countrles and glven these countrles' attltudes about multlnatlonals and
thelr role 1n the "New Economlc Order.... and a host of Vlews that boll
down to an "1: 15 more blessed to recelve than give" posture, selectlve
monltorlng of mu. actlvltles 15 clearly warranted.
And, we'll no doubt have some suzprlses from leglslators and regulators
both here and abroad as they seek to further thelr 1nd1v1dual causes
at chemlcal 1ndustry cost.
For 1:: work 1n 1933, the Commlttee has the resources 1: needs. It. has
an actlve and knowledgeable membershlp. 1:5 task groups have excellent
partlclpatlon and management. Commlttee and task groups beneflt from
excellent cm staff support and from the actlve and effectlve part1c1*
patlon of 1ndustry leaders such as Leo Johnstone and Dexter Baker who,
mm Conmlttee members and CMA staff, have malntalned close tles mm key
government people. He have excellent rapport and high credlblllty 1n thls
general area of trade where 1ndustry objectlves are slmllar to those of
the Admlnlstratlon.
In closmg, I would, however, ask each of you to conslder the actlve
partlclpatlon of your trade experts 1n our Commlttee task groups. If you
perhaps have no one 1n your organlzatlon who you would judge to be such
an expert, I submlt that you serlously conslder developmg that expertlse.
I further submlt that membershlp on one of our task groups 15 a costeffectlve way to obtaln 1:. I flrmly belleve you need thls expertlse.
In past years, "trade" as such may not have been all that glamorous a
subject. But 15 one measures glamor by the amount of news medla attentlon
a subject gets, that past truth 1: truth no longer. Glamor Esme, I'm
hopeful that my presentatlon thls mornlng has helped underscore the
subject's unportance m thls 1ndustry today and, more unportant,
tomorrow.
CMA
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
In 1992 the major tax problems faced by the chemlcal 1ndustry were
presented 1n the context of leglslatlon to reduce growlng federal budget
deficits 1n Significant part by 1ncreaslng taxes on busmess. Tax measures
whlch are consldered 1n thls polltlcal context are judged prlmarlly on
thelr ability to ralse Federal revenues, rather than on merlt or reason.
Durlng thls past year cm and 1:: member companles were successful
largely by limiting leglslatlve'tax losses, rather than by obtalnlng new
tax beneflts. Although these achlevements were made 1n the context of
leglslatlon whlch substantlally reduced the 1ncome tax beneflts of 1nvest1ng
1n chemlcal plant and equlpment, they were nonetheless 1mportant. These
achlevements 1nclude:
o
o
o
o
Rejectlon of proposed alternatlve mmmum tax
Malntenance of forelgn tax credlt and deferral of tax
on current forelgn 1ncome of forelgn subsldlarles
Malntenance of Domestlc Internatlonal Sales Cozporatlons
mrscy provlslons Hlth current beneflts reduced by 15 percent
Malntenance of Accelerated Cost Recovery System (ACES) mm
reductlon of 5 percent of ACES beneflts when full 10 percent
1nvestment tax credlt 1: taken on ACRS property
mm Federal budget deficits for Flscal 1993 and Flscal 1994 now projected
to exceed $175 and 52m bllllon respectlvely, we antlelpate that the Adm1n15*
tratlon and the Congress will agaln seek 1n the 98th Congress to reduce th s
deficits through tax 1ncrease leglslatlon. The problems encountered 1n 1992
by cm and the chemlcal 1ndustry are llkely m be repeated 1n 1933.
In thls envlronment, the Tax Pollcy Contlttee Hill threat 1:: efforts 1n
1993 to the followlng major tax goals and objectlves:
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Monltor tax and fundlng aspects of publlc compensatlon
leglslatlon and consult Hlth other cm commlttees on
approprlate actlon.
Malntaln tax 1ncent1ves for v.5. exports whlch are at least
equlvalent :9 ms:
Malntaln present treatment of forelgn tax credlt and deferral
of current 1ncome of forelgn subsldlarles
Malntaln and 1mprove Accelerated Cost Recovery System (ACES)
and Investanent Tax Credlt
Reslst any 1ncrease or expanslon of mmmum tax on cozporatlons
Improve and extend tax credlt for research and development
Extend statutory moratorlum on Treasury Regulatlons § 1.95179
whlch requlre allocatlon of research and development expenses
to forelgn 1ncome
Provlde chemlcal 1ndustry connnents on Treasury Regulatlons
(when lssued7 1nterpret1ng CERCLA taxes on chemlcals and
petroleum
Provlde chemlcal 1ndustry cosnents on Treasury Regulatlons
(when lssued7 on 1991 ERTA and 1992 11mm leglslatlon.
CMA
CMA 037999
REMARKS TD CMA BOARD 017 ummmns
ay GLENN w, wams
CHAIRMAN. TAX POLICY COMMITTEE
JANUARY 10, 1393
1992 was not a good year for the chemlcal 1ndustry 1n terms of v.5. tax
pollcy. Changes 1n v.5. tax law adopted as the Tax Equlty and Flscal
Responslblllty Act of 1992 (TEFRA7 now place the chemlcal 1ndustry 1n 3
posltlon worse than when thls Admlnlstratlon took offlce. 1: 15 unportant
to note that the 11mm changes were not as adverse proportlonately for
other 1ndustr1es, such as baslc metal productlon or 011 reflnlng.
How had were the 1992 changes? In 1980 the "Superfund" leglslatlon was
adopted. Many observers 1n the chemlcal 1ndustry Vlewed that event as
one of the worst that has ever befallen thls 1ndustry. Superfund calls
for the collectlon of about $1.4 bllllon over a Siyear perlod. Th1: 15
an afteritax amount of about $150 mllllon per year, of whlch the chemlcal
1ndustry 15 paylng en percent or $120 mllllon per year.
(In fact. actual
collectlons are somewhat less because of low 1ndustry operatlng levels.)
The 2 percent reductlon 1n 1nvestment tax credlt costs the chemlcal 1ndustry
over $250 million annually, more than twlce as much as Superfund. Remember”
the reductlon 1n 1nvestment tax credlt was only one part of the adverse
changes 1n 11mm.
Ironlcally, much of the' adverse unpact from TEFRA may not be felt by the
1ndustry 1n 1993 because of the poor overall condltlon of the v.5. economy.
on the posltlve slde, several adverse proposals dld not become law. The
proposed alternatlve mmmum tax was not adopted. There was 'no leglslatlon
maklng Significant adverse changes 1n the v.5. taxatlon of forelgn source
1ncome. The acceleratlon of depreclatlon from 7.5 m 5 years that had
become law 1n 1991 was preserved, although the future unprovement 1n the
rate of depreclatlon that was to have become effectlve 1n 1995 and 1995 was
lost mm an 1mpact 1n those years of more than 51.5 bllllon 1n cash for the
1ndustry.
Havlng set the stage mm these comments on the state of tax affalrs, let
me assure you that the Tax Pollcy Commlttee 15 allve and well and dolnglts best 1n llght of the help we get from our frlends 1n government.
The commlttee's membershlp presently stands at 21. Commlttee meetlngs are
generally attended by moreundlvmuals than that number. All of the members
are actlve. and each one brlngs a Valuable perspectlve and 1n51ght m the
conmlttae.
CMA 039000
We have three operatlng task groups: Capltal Formatlon, Forelgn Taxatlon,
and Value Added Taxatlon. We are 1n the process of establlshlng a new task
group 1n the area of State and Local Taxatlon. Th1: latter area has become
of more concern Hlth the concept of "New Federallsm" and the concommltant
need for more funds by the states.
In the task groups, we make an effort to 1nclude persons other them
commlttee members. Th1: gives an opportunlty for a larger group to partlclpate
1n 1ndustry tax affalrs.
1: also provldes the commlttee Hlth an opportunlty
m obtaln the speclal talents of experts and an opportunlty to see prospectlve
future commlttee members 1n actlon.
The role of the Tax Pollcy Commlttee 15 to keep you advlsed of all relevant
developments 1n the tax area. To do thls we carefully watch proposed leglsi
15mm, the promulgatlon of new regulatlons, prospectlve trestle: and new
litigation. Where any of these facets of developlng tax law alert us to
changes that affect the 1ndustry, He Will advlse you on the unpllcatlons of
such developments. Where approprlate, He Will suggest pollcles the 1ndustry
may wlsh to follow.
In developmg new 1ndustry posltlons, we work towards a consensus Vlew. After
all. a posltlon cannot be that of the 1ndustry unless substantlally all of'
the members 61nd 1: at least acceptable. That means the debate 15 occasmm
ally crlsp. Nonetheless, we generally can reach qulck accord because we
recognlze the other slde 15 the government and 1: wants our money.
Tax leglslatlve pollcy probably presents a dlfferent problem than any other
lssue the 1ndustry faces. Tax leglslatlon 15 an everipresent lssue that 15
not resolved by a leglslatlve enactment. Instead, the federal tax law 15
under ongolng revlew by the Senate Flnance Commlttee and House Ways and Means
Commlttee and the Varlous staff organlzatlons, as well as the 1nd1v1dual
members' staffs. There has been some sort of serlous tax leglslatlve thrust
posed 1n each Congresslonal sesslon Since 1959. Significant laws were enacted
1n 1959, 1971, 1974, 1975, 1976, 197e, 1930, 1991 and 1932. Because of the
ongolng nature of these enactments, and because of the pecullarly compllcated
and hlghly technlcal nature of thls leglslatlon, 1: 15 necessary to provlde
contlnuous revlew and contact. partlcularly mm the staff persons 1n Congress
and Treasury who are responslble for developlng new leglslatlon.
Member companles carry out thls actlvlty on an 1nd1v1dual basls both through
thelr technlcal tax staffs and government relatlons offlces. The contlnulty
1n the Tax Pollcy Connlttee as presently constltuted better enables us to
follow and adopt sound posltlons 1n the evepchanglng matrlx of technlcal
proposals.
CMA DBBDDI
CMA'S staff representatlve for the Tax Pollcy Commlttee came to us from the
House Ways and Means Commlttee and, as a consequence, can and does 35515:
the commlttee 1n bemg aware of what 15 happenlng 1n the staff arena.
5k
ne
:1patw
t
c
ry
I
The commlttee contlnues to use the law flrm of Mlller and Chevaller as outslde
counsel: Messers. Sherfy and Heyde from that flrm provlde Valuable asslstance
1n draftlng posltlon papers for the commlttee after the posltlons are establlshi
ed. They and other members of the 51m provlde Valuable 1n51ghts on a Varlety
of tax lssues as new Situations develop.
Durlng 1993 we foresee development of a number of serlous tax lssues. mm a
budget deflclt 1n excess of 5150 bllllon, 1: 15 almost certaln an effort will
be made to ralse taxes, 1nclud1ng the corporate 1ncome tax. Several areas are
llkely m be affected. Probably there Will be a second Lute at the 1nvestment
tax credlt apple. If recapture of the whole credlt 1: taken out of basls, the
credlt would be reduced to about a percent, mm an addltlonal cost to the
chemlcal 1ndustry of 5290 mllllon. There 15 a sentlment to tax employee
eneflts such as medlcal and other 1nsurance premlums, and perhaps some toms
o erred compensatlon not presently taxed. There seems to be a renewed
1nteres taxlng the overseas operatlons of v.5. cozporatlons.
fter
A new tax thrust osed by the scicalled publlc compensatlon leglslatlon.’
The tax watch on thls 1515mm 1: crltlcal. In my Vlew, thls could be a
leglslatlve catastrophe to e 1ndustry.
15
jd
355
1: 15 llkely there Will be changes durlng 199 the way v.5. exports Will
be taxed. 1: 15 clear that the members of the GATT all are convlnced that
the exlstlng Domestlc Internatlonal Sales Corporatlon 1 1: 1n breach of
the subsldles code. Our Deputy Trade Representatlve has agree a Adm1n15*
tratlon will prepare leglslatlon 1n thls area” Although Treasury rec*
ommended that the arse be repealed, and that no tax substltute be Esta had
1n 1:: place, there 15 good sentlment for a contlnuatlon of tax support for
v.5. exports. The Tax Pollcy Commlttee will press strongly for a tax system
that provldes export asslstance at least equlvalent to the arse. Here I
pause for my only coranerclal. We of Dow hope you'll support an effort to
revlse the system so the presently accrued ursc earnlngs Will not be taxed 1n
the future. Belleve me, 1: 15 more unportant to most of you than 1: 15 to me.
End of commerclal.
We awalt regulatlons 1nterpret1ng the tax law 1n several 1mportant areas.
Mo regulatlons have been lssued for the wlndfall proflts tax, or for
Superfund. Regulatlons are due any day now on the forelgn tax credlt; of
courSE, I've been told that conslstently for more than nlne months. I guess
you'd call that an 1nhuman gestatlon perlod. Almost no regulatlons have
been lssued 1n connectlon mm the 1991 ERTA and 1992 TEFRA leglslatlon.
cm 039002
We stand prepared to comment on all of these regulatlons as they come forth
1n proposed form.
Th1: past year we undertook a new actlvlty for the commlttee. We ﬁlled an
5mm brlef 1n support of a member company's attempt to get to the v.5.
Supreme Court. Th1: lssue 1nvolves the avallablllty to the Internal Revenue
Servlce of the corporate analysls of 1:: tax reserve account. That account
establlshes the potentlal llablllty of the taxpayer on lssues 1n the tax
return about whlch there 15 some questlon. CMA 15 supportlng the taxpayer's
effort to get a revlew of thls matter by the Supreme Court.
We propose to contlnue to provlde support to you 1n all of these tax areas.
We are willing to undertake any other efforts you, the Board, the Executlve
Commlttee or members request.
We do have a favor to ask 1n return. If we
acceptlng or rejectlng 1: so we can take an
freeze us by inaction. Remember we want :9
1n the strongest and best way we can 61nd.
61nd a new posltlon more acceptable to you.
propose a pollcy, help us by
effectlve posltlon. Please don't
represent the chemlcal 1ndustry
If a posltlon 15 rejected, we can
I have had the pleasure of worklng Hlth many excellent tax commlttees and
tax organlzatlons. The cm Tax Pollcy Commlttee 15 outstandlng. 1: has
been my pleasure to be 1:: chalrman.
am
am manna
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
EXHIBIT F
CMA'S communlcatlons program reflects ths shlft 1n
dlrectlon to an lssue*or1entEd. balanced 1ndustry communk
catlons program.
Th1: advocacy campalgn draws on the com?
blned resources and perspectlves of the Assoclatlon's
Government ...Relatlons. Technlcal and Communlcatlons
departments, provldlng a stronger force mm whlch the
Assoclatlon can communlcate mm leglslators, other
assoclatlons and 1ndustr1e5. and the general publlc.
CMA'S
focused. costieffectlve communlcatlons program 15 almed at
developlng an equltable envlronment 1n whlch to develop publlc
pollcy.
The Communlcatlons Commlttee. 1:5 task groups and the
cm staff are the backbone of thls communlcatlons program.
Together. these groups create elements that 1nclude news
relatlons and general publlc relatlons actlvltles.
Mews medla actlvltles are deslgned to Volce 1ndustry
and Assoclatlon pollcy and programs to the press.
These
reflect the department's close relatlonshlp Hlth Government
Relatlons and the Assoclatlon's shlft to targeted efforts.
Th1: program element grows 1n 1mportance as our relatlonshlp
Hlth the press conslstently needs nurturlng both from a
natlonal and local communlty level.
The medla tour program
reached more than 99.C1t1e5 by the flrst of January 1nclud1ng
17a televlslon. 152 radlo and 209 newspaper 1ntervlews mm
cm staff and Sclence Advlsory Group members.
Clearly, thls
klnd of actlvlty enhances CMA and 1ndustry relatlonshlps mm
the press and gives us one more posltlve step toward achlevlng
balanced reportlng.
Another approach to broadenlng press relatlonshlps 15 the
placement of CMA offlcers and executlves on major speaklng
platforms. such as the Detrolt Economlc Club, the World Affalrs
Councll of Plttsburgh and the Executlve Club of Chlcago.
The
flrst of these featured CMA Chalman Slmeral speaklng on the
Pollcy Agenda for the Chemlcal Industry 1n 1933, focuslng on
the economy, 1nternatlonal trade and envlronmental regulatlon.
Twenty reporters from natlonal and trade publlcatlons part1c1*
pated.
Th1: klnd of actlvlty creates a posltlve proflle for
the 1ndustry.
The news medla sectlon Will be 1nstrumental 1n helplng
to develop major communlcatlons efforts over the course of the
year focuslng on speclflc crltlcal lssues such as hazardous
waste dlsposal and. publlc compensatlon.
These efforts will
1nclude many aspects of the ongolng CMA communlcatlons program,
1.E. speclal press klts m be used at the local level, radlo
broadcast and telsvlslon programmlng, lssues advertlslng and
speaker engagements.
An example of thls klnd of speclallzed
lssue effort 1: the "clean water" program currently 1n effect
and targeted for four congresslonal dlstrlcts.
Th1: effort
1ncludes medla tours, whlch began 1n December 1n areas of
West Virginia, New York State and Kentucky.
These will be
followed by radlo broadcasts and lssues advertlslng when the
Clean Water Act reau.thorlzatlon 15 1ntroduced 1n Congress*.
Th1: communlcatlons strategy 15 successful 1n reachlng the
cm 039004
Representatlves of these dlstrlcts. 1: Will be used Hlth
other lssues alsawhara.
CHA broadcast network contlnuas to Expand.
1: 1ncludes
THE REPORT. 3 serles of threeﬂnlnute newsfeatures dlstrlbuted
blweekly m a 1,500 statlon network, spontaneous newsfeeds
Hlth actuallty sent to anywhere from 1,250 m 1,550 statlons,
Bnisecond televlslon newsfeatures and expanded actlvlty at
the Amerlcan Women 1n Radlo and Televlslon 12mm and the
Natlonal Faun Broadcasters Assoclatlon (mmsy conventlons.
A prune example of the 'good' that comes from such efforts 1:
the press and broadcast actlvlty surroundlng the lelngston, Loul.
slana, traln'derallment 1n September.
cammmc, CMA'S
Chemlcal Transportatlon Emergency Center, was notlfled of the
1nc1dent Within mlnutes of the derallment.
The dlrector of
cammznc partlclpated 1n 14 telephone 1ntervlews.
These
efforts were supported by the cammm newsfmature whlch was
flown to seven local statlons and the cable news network,
reachlng an audlence of more than 35 million people, produclng
balanced reportlng whlle diffusing negatlve reactlons toward
the chemlcal 1ndustry.
Although the natlonal prlnt advertlslng has been taunt
hated. some locallzed lssues advertlslng on speclflc toplcs
715 belng prepared for use 1n targeted areas.
Currently, a
clean water ad to be Signed by a natlonal coalltlon 15 bemg
developed to support the clean water efforts 1n congresslonal
dlstrlcts 1n West Virginia and New York State.
The cm
Advertlslng Task Group has allotted 530,000 to the Speclal
Clean Water Work Group for thls effort.
Other lssues
advertlslng 15 bemg developed on an as needed basls 1n
support of other program actlvltles.
In the last 27 years, CMA'S Catalyst Awards Program has
honored 134 college, junlor college and high school teachers
Hlth natlonal awards.
Some of these wlnners have dlsplayed
outstandlng speaklng talents and Will be consldered for p05*
slble speaklng engagements to further CMA'S contact Hlth
Varlous educatlonal and consumer groups.
Th1: 15 an 1nexpeni
slve way of tapplng a greatly underused resource.
Productlon of four publlc servlce announcements (PEAS)
are targeted for completlon 1n the sprlng.
These PSAS Will
be 1n keeplng Hlth the new lssue*focus and Will be dlstrlbui
ted to 200 major market statlons.
Osage Will be tracked to
evaluate the success
and costieffectlveness of thls actlvlty.
The three PSAS extracted from "The Need to Know...
CMA'S
15 ma. £11m on hazardous waste dlsposal, have been alred
1,500 tunes Hlth an approxlmate Viewing audlence of 35 mllllon.
Dlstrlbutlon of "The Need to Know... and "uomg Somethlng"
contlnues Hlth communlty group showlngs of more than 1,750 m
an estlmated Viewing audlence of nearly 49,000.
Televlslon alrlngs for the two £11m: are more than sun mm an estlmated
audlence of 1.15 million.
cm menus
73cm: consumer 1nformatlon program contlnual m 1dentlfy "multlpller" organlzatlons who will transmlt Assoclatlon
massagas m mllllons of Vlewers and raadars at mlnlmal cost.
Exlstlng prlnt and audlo Vlsual materlal 15 belng marketed
to such groups.
Programs mm AWRT are belng reevaluated
for thelr costiefflclency.
Actlvltles mm mm; last year
1ncluded en flveﬂnlnute televlslon and 209 radlo 1ntervlews
made by 45 broadcasters.
The estlmated llstenlng audlence
was 10 mllllon and total alr time was 31 hours.
A new
project 15 planned for the 1n7house productlon and natlonal
satelllte dellvery of 10 consumer 1nfomatlon pieces for TV
news and talk shows.
Th1: Will be coordlnated Hlth other
cm broadcast actlvltles.
mm greater attentlon to cost, CMA 15 evaluatlng the
mailing 115:: of 1:: two newsletters, ChemEcology and cm
News.
Both are bemg evaluated for posslble reductlon 1n
number of pages and a reader survey of each 15 also belng
consldered.
CheaEcology Speclal Reports contlnue to be
1ncluded 1n speclal news medla packages for the press.
cm 15 supportlng a pilot reglonal communlcatlons pro*
gram 1n Louisiana mm the Louisiana Chemlcal Assoclatlon
Th1: program reflects the Assoclatlon's focus on
state and local lssues.
The natlonal purpose of thls p119:
program 15 to develop a model plan that other states and areas
can use as well as to create a more posltlve publlc 1dent1ty
for the chemlcal 1ndustry 1n Louisiana.
lelted to one
state. the program 15 molded to that state's communlcatlons
needs and Will be carrled out by the state chemlcal 1ndustry
councll or 1:5 equlvalent along mm the support of companles
that make up the councll.
cm 15 provldlng $100,000 for the
plot and will offer guldance m LCA and 1:5 publlc relatl n5
dlrector.
The program 15 bemg put 1nto place thls month
and Will be evaluated after one year.
The cm communlcatlons program was funded untll now by
a separate "ChemCAP" assessment whlch stood at 40 percent
of member company dues.
mm the dollars saved by the all,
minatlon of the natlonal prlnt advertlslng program added to
exlstlng carryover funds, cm was able to reduce the 92/93
assessment to 20 percent.
Beginning 1n flscal year 93/34,
the speclal assessment will be wrapped 1nto overall dues.
The assessmentuwrapqn reflects the 1ndustry's commltment
to an 1ndustry communlcatlons program that 15 wellibalanced,
costieffectlve and a necessary support to all Assoclatlon
actlvltles.
am
am manna
REMARKS TD CMA BOARD OF DIRECTORS
By Wllllam M. Metten Jr.
Chalrman. Communlcatlons Commlttee
January 10, 1993
The Communlcatlons Commlttee appreclates thls opportunlty
to brlng you upitoidate on our 1ndustry's communlcatlons pro*
grams, priorities and problems.
In the next few mlnutes I
would llke m outllne a new dlrectlon 1n the focus of our
communlcatlons program, share mm you several examples of how
am communlcatlons actlvltles support our 1ndustry's goals, and,
lastly, touch on the future communlcatlons challenges faclng our
1ndustry.
But flrst. a brlef overvlew of how the publlc percelves the
chemlcal 1ndustry may be of 1nterest.
The negatlve perceptlon
that the publlc has of our 1ndustry has not changed.
The publlc
belleves that the 1ndustry 15 1rrespon51ble 1n 1:: management of
wastes and 15 unwllllng to deal mm crltlcal envlronmental
lssues unless forced by federal and state leglslatlon.
The publlc's perceptlon of us as bad guys 15 1nfluenced and
relnforced by a news medla whlch 15 steadlly Chlpplng away at
the prlvate enterprlse 55mm of our soclety...by docuidramas
that protray busmess and busmessmen as dlshonest and motlvated
by money alone...by the outcrles of envlronmentallsts and selfstyled protectors of the publlc 1nterest.
It's no wonder. 15 1:, that opinion survey after opinion
survey shows such a negatlve publlc attltude toward our 1ndustry
Hlth the hazardous waste lssue the foremost lssue preoccupylng
the publlc's perceptlon.
And llke 1: or not, perceptlon equals
reallty 1n the publlc's mnd.
Our cause 15 not alder! elther by the fact that the Admnk
stratlon. because of economc and other polltlcal conslderatlons,
has not been able to provlde the leadershlp necessary to 1nfluence
leglslatlve actlvltles to deal Hlth the problems of our 1ndustry.
Wlthln the past 51x months CMA'S communlcatlons program has
undergone a Significant change 1n dlrectlon.
Three factors are
prlmarlly responslble for brlnglng about thls change.
One Will
certalnly come as no surprlse to anyone 1n thls room W the
economy has not been klnd to our 1ndustry.
In thls adverse
economc cllmatE. the Communlcatlons Commlttee recognlzed the
need to reduce communlcatlons expendlture, a declslon conslstent
Hlth actlons taken by many member companles.
As you know, a
substantlal reductlon In cm communlcatlons expendltures occurred
1n the prlnt advertlslng area.
As a result of ellmlnatlng the
natlonal prlnt advertlslng program, the 1992 ChemCAP assessment
has been reduced from 40 percent to 20 percent.
The second factor contrlbutlng to a change 1n the dlrectlon
of our communlcatlons program 15 a closer liaison Hlth CMA'S
Government R latlons Commlttee.
cm 039007
A strong relatlonshlp between Government Relatlons and
Communlcatlons 15 essentlal when you conslder the necesslty
for our 1ndustry's communlcatlons m be focused around and
1n support of the leglslatlve lssues faclng our 1ndustry.
A
stronger brldge has been bull: between the Communlcatlons and
Government Relatlons Commlttees for cross*fertlllzatlon of 1deas
and plannlng communlcatlons strategles and bulldlng constltuencles.
Th1: 15 a relatlvely recent marrlage.
At thls polnt, both partners
are enthuslastlc about the opportunltles for coordlnatlng cm
communlcatlons more closely mm government relatlons objectlves.
We look forward to the day when thls approach bears frult.
The mum element of the new dlrectlon 1n our 1ndustry's
communlcatlons actlvltles 15 a deslre to try new and dlfferent
approaches 1n our ongolng commltment to reshape the publlc's
negatlve perceptlon of our 1ndustry.
We recognlze that we are
locked 1nto a constant and shlftlng battle for the publlc's under?
standlng and support.
Results are dlfflcult to come by.
Vlctorles
are few.
But we must Vote present on the lssues and use every
means at our dlsposal m communlcate the 1ndustry's accompllshments
and commltment on 1ndustry lssues.
We have 1n1tlated two actlvltles
whlch lllustrate the use of 1nnovat1ve communlcatlons approaches
to accompllsh these objectlves.
One 1nvolves a pilot reglonal
communlcatlons program 1n cooperatlon mm the Loulslana Chemlcal
Assoclatlon.
Th1: program will be tallored m that state's communlcatlons
priorities, and the leadershlp 15 bemg provlded by Louisiana
Chemlcal Assoclatlon and 1:: member companles.
Funds are belng madtl
avaliable from our communlcatlons budget for one year.
The Loulsk
ana experlment beglns thls month.
We hope that the experlence
galned Will be useful 1n developlng model communlcatlons programs
for use 1n other states to develop publlc pollcy support at the
grass roots level.
1
Another 1nnovat1ve approach 1nvolves a grass roots Communica*
tlons program 1n support of clean water.
Th1: 15 the flrst time
that we have targeted a smgle message Hlthln key congresslonal
dlstrlcts to bulld a Coalltlon of supporters and actlvate a publlc
relatlons campalgn at the grass roots level.
Here again, thls 15
a learnlng experlence, and we are hopeful that 1: will produce
results whlch can be applled elsewhere.
Personally speaklng,
I am exalted about these new approaches
and the new dlrectlon that our communlcatlons program 15 taklng.
I know that our Communlcatlons Commlttee shares thls feellng.
The members of our commlttee 77 your employees W have contrlbuted
greatly to shape and gulde these new communlcatlons actlvltles.
Now I would llke to touch on the other communlcatlons actlvltles whlch contlnue to play an 1mportant role 1n CMA'S overall
communlcatlons program.
cm manna
I am referrlng m such actlvltles as:
CMA'S medla tours whlch are planned around a speclflc
lssue and targeted for maxlmum unpact 1n geographlcal areas and
congresslonal dlstrlcts.
Medla tours conslstently dellvered
results. and we are 1ncreaslng the tours 1n 1933.
Broadcast communlcatlons 15 another results*or1ented
communlcatlons actlvlty.
am now broadcasts a regular serles
of threeﬂnlnute radlo features dedlcated to major lssues of the
assoclatlon and dlstrlbuted bkweekly to 19m statlons.
e
The balanced televlslon newsfeed contlnues m be a key
lngredlent 1n our news actlvltles.
For example, we fed a recent
feature on Superfund v15 satelllte to more than 400 statlons.
a
Consumer 1nfomatlon programmlng W thls actlvlty coni
tlnues to generate results and good will for our 1ndustry and
malntalns mutually beneflclal relatlons between cm and consum r,
publlc 1nterest. educatlonal and other 1nfluentlal groups.
Th
objectlve here 15 also to advocate our posltlon on major lssues
as well as provlde a forum for member companles to talk about thelr
1nd1v1dual product beneflts.
At conventlons llke the Amerlcan Women 1n Radlo and Televr
slon, 1ndustry experts are 1ntervlewed on a Varlety of subjects.
In the aftermath of the traln derallment at lelngston, Loulslana,
CMA'S Chemtrec staff and news servlce department turned some
adverse clrcumstances 1nto a posltlve medla experlence.
In the tune remalnlng I would llke to take a prospectlve look
at the major lssues confrontlng our 1ndustry and suggest some ways
that our Communlcatlons Commlttee 15 conslderlng addresslng the
lssues 1n support of our 1ndustry's posltlon.
The blggest smgle issue whlch adversely affects the publlc's
perceptlon
of our 1ndustry 15 hazardous waste dlsposal.
Notwlthi
standlng efforts by our member companles and an ongolng program
by CMA 1tself, the publlc percelves that they are at great rlsk
from chemlcal wastes.
The hazardous waste lssue has such a grlp
on the natlonal consclousness that thls smgle lssue affects the
publlc's perceptlon on other 1ndustry lssues such as clean air and
clean water.
Later on today, I Will have the opportunlty to ad?
dress the publlc perceptlon of hazardous waste lssues as part of
a Waste Management Plan presentatlon to be consldered by the
Executlve Commlttee.
1n closmg, I would llke to acknowledge the contrlbutlon of
1nd1v1duals on our commlttee and thank you for contrlbutlng thelr
advlce and counsel on the tough communlcatlons problems our
1ncustry 15 faclng.
Thelr efforts contlnue to make a real sonny
butlon to our program.
I also wlsh to acknowledge the efforts of
CMA'S communlcatlons staff whose enthuslasm and commltment on
behalf of our 1ndustry 15 a key element 1n the progress we have
made 1n recent months.
am
am manna
EXHIBIT G
BIOMEDICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIAL pnocnms
Advlsory Commlttee Charter
Purpose
The Blamedlcal and Envlronmental Speclal Programs
Advlsory Commlttee 15mm will ensure that all programs are
conducted 1n a manner conslstent Hlth CMA pollcy and mm
the Speclal Programs Guldellnes, revlew and make recommend?
tlons on all advocacy and research programs, coordlnate the
actlvltles of programs Hlth approprlate CMA commlttees, and
advlse the Executlve Commlttee on the acceptance of new
programs and amendments to the charter of exlstlng programsl.
Membershlp and Votlng Procedures
SPAC Hill conslst of nine members, 1nclud1ng the
Chalrman.
The members will be recommended by the Presldent
of the Assoclatlon and appolnted by the Executlve Commlttee
Hlth the approval of the Board.
Each of the followlng CMA
commlttees Will be represented:
Chemlcal Regulatlons Advlsory Commlttee
Dccupatlonal Safety and Health Commlttee
Envlronmental Management Commlttee
Regulatory Impact Speclal Commlttee
The maxlmum term of the Chalman and 1nd1v1dual gPAC
members will be three contlnuous years.
Membershlp 1n SPAC will
b termlnated 15 a member does not attend at least twoithlrds
of the total number of meetlngs durlng any twelveﬂ'nonth perlod.
A quorum Hill conslst of a majorlty of SPAC members.
Each SPAC member has one Vote and a declslon shall be rendered
by a majorlty Vote of the total membershlp.
In the event of a
tle Vote. the Chalrman's declslon Will be flnal.
Votlng by
wrltten proxy Will be allowed.
SPAC Will be revlewed by the Executlve Commlttee
annually.
In cases of severe time constralnts. an offlcer of CMA, Hlth
notlflcatlon of the SPAC chalrman, can give interim approval
of new programs or modlflcatlons to an exlstlng program.
am
am 038010
EXHIBIT 3
THE INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS snow
REPORT TO THE cm BOARD 017 ummmns
January 11, 1953
Presented by Dr. E. a. Blalr
Tha Dow Chemlcal Company
The Internatlonal Affalrs Group (LAG) was formed by approval of the CMA
Board and of the 5001A Board. 1n November 1979.
A record of the actlvltles of ms can be found 1n the mlnutes of the
Steerlng Commlttee meetlngs, and a copy of the Charter exlsts 1n the cm
osnce, Copies are avaliable to those who wlsh to have one.
ms 15 concerned mm the 1nternatlonal consequences of efforts by
natlonal governments, groups of governments and/or 1nternatlonal organk
zatlons to manage the identification and control of chemlcal rlsks to
human health and the envlronment.
The v.5. chemlcal 1ndustry trade assoclatlons and thelr member companles
have actlvely supported a constructlve domestlc pollcy on the manner
catlon and control of chemlcal rlsks to health and the envlronment. Such
matters may cross natlonal borders, as does the flow of chemlcal
substances and chemlcal 1ndustry 1nvestment. There 15 growlng 1nteri
natlonal initiative 1n the health, safety and envlronmental arena. Thus,
1: 15 necessary that the v.5. chemlcal 1ndustry v15 ms develop and
support a constructlve 1nternatlonal pollcy to meet the need for
1ncreased 1nternatlonal understandlng of, and commltment to, these
objectlves.
Durlng the past three years, ms has held numerous meetlngs Hlth the
European Councll of Chemlcal Manufacturers Federatlons (CEFIC), com?
prises many natlonal chemlcal 1ndustry trade assoclatlons, 1nclud1ng
those for countrles Within the European Communlty. Th1: past year
members of ms traveled to Japan to conduct dlscusslons on matters of
testlng and control of chemlcal substances mm the Japanese Chemlcal
Industry Assoclatlon (JCIA), and through JCIA, the Mlnlstrles of
Internatlonal Trade and Industry (MITI), and Health and Welfare, and
Labor.
In addltlon to the multlpllclty of laws affectlng the trade of chemlcals
between Varlous natlons 15 the everilncreaslng actlvlty of supranatlonal
bodles. These 1nclude the European Economlc communlty (may, the
Drganlzatlon of Economlc Cooperatloni and Development 10mm Chemlcals
Programs, the Unlted Natlons Envlronmental Program (UNEvy, and a host
of technlcal and sclentlflc programs that fall under Varlous Unlted
Natlons and other global governmental programs.
CMA menu
Posslbly the most unportant evldence of IAG'S actlvlty 1: 1n the 0mm
arena. At the recent ngh Level Meetlng II, the Unlted States succeeded
1n 1:: two? year attempt to avold 1mposltlon of testlng requlrements for
new chemlcals, 1n the form of omu's minimum praimarketlng data set
1mm. These requlrements would have been placed on new chemlcals prior
to manufacture 1n the v.5. for domestlc use.
Under an agreement worked out November 15717, spearheaded by EPA
Admlnlstrator. Anne Gorsuch, omu delegatlons endorsed a v.5. proposal
that would allow 1nd1v1dual 0mm natlons to select thelr own approaches
for revlewlng new chemlcals. Th1: success 15 due, to a large part, to
IAG'S actlvltles worklng closely Hlth those of DECD's Buslness and
1ndustry Advlsory Commlttee 113mm, whlle 1n fact provldlng much of the
muscle and advocacy behlnd BXAC'S posltlons to ensure that v.5.
1ndustr1es were not shorted 1n the 1nternatlonal arena. In affect. our
success at these recent omu meetlngs means that the v.5. 1ndustry's
requlrements for praimanufacture notlflcatlons on new chemlcal sub?
stances Hill remaln unchanged for the present. TSCA Will not have to be
amended
1n thls respect because of 1nternatlonal pressures and
commltments. Other agreements whlch the v.5. delegatlon obtalned were:
Good laboratory practlces to provlde a rellable basls for
mutual acceptance of testlng data.
Protectlon for confldentlal busmess 1nformatlon.
Agreement to consolldate and evaluate,
contlnue to expand 0mm work on chemlcals.
"Data 1nterpretatlon Guldes" for initial hazard assess*
ment of chemlcals.
rather
than
we are now at the beglnnlng of a 5710 year experlence 1n whlch the
Japanese requlrements Hill caiexlst mm TSCA Sectlon 5 law, mm the
European Communlty bassiset systems 1n 1:: tan member states, and Hlth
the 0mm MPD system, as 1: 15 or Will be unplemented 1n other man
countrles. such as Australla and posslbly Canada.
I AG Will have a major role 1n partlclpatlng 1n thls comparatlve
experlence 1n the 1nterest of 1nternatlonal trade and agalnst the
1ncreaslng demands for protectlonlsm. If any changes 1n TSCA Sectlon 5
are seen to have merlt, on revlew of the next 5710 years global
experlence mm new chemlcals. ms should have a crltlcal role 1n that
evaluatlon.
Slmllarly, assesslng the rlsk of exlstlng chemlcals Hill requlre
monltorlng of the Varlous natlonal programs to minimize dupllcatlon, to
assure
that trade dlslncentlves are not created,
and to speed
understandlng of new 1nfomatlon, testlng procedures, etc. How much of
thls ms should or can do remalns m be detemlned.
CMA 039012
1nternatlonal compllance programs where ms can provlde guldance
are those of labellng, waste dlsposal, occupatlonal health, and posslbly
transportatlon. Agaln, the extent and depth of LAG'S 1nvolvement 1n
these actlvltles, 1n terms of partlclpatlon mm other domestlc and
1nternatlonal chemlcal 1ndustry groups, needs to be determlned.
Other
lAG's actlvlty 1n the "confldentlallty of 1dent1ty" lssue 1n the
European Inventory of Exlstlng Commerclal Chemlcals mmmsy taught us
the 1mportance of 1ncreaslng threat contacts as early as posslble Hlth
the 1nd1v1dual natlonal chemlcal 1ndustry trade assoclatlons, whlle at
the same tune coordlnatlng mm the reglonal groups, especlally CEFIC.
Th1: lesson can be used 1n the contlnulng aspects of thls issue, now
dlrected at the PMN systems, and probably also 1n the several dlfferent
labellng systems whlch need to be made compatlble and ultlmately
hamonlzed. These confllctlng systems are now developmg 1n dlfferent
countrles. leferences are evldent 1n the methods by whlch chemlcals are
classlfled by thelr delayed? effect hazards, such as cancer. The same 1:
true for the language used on labels to warn about these hazards. For
example, there 15 the potentlal of warnlng about a cancer hazard 1n
Europe, but not 1n the Unlted States. The 1mpllcatlons of thls
dlfference for product llablllty are substantlve. ms has formed a Work
Group to develop a route to an 1nternatlonal consensus on thls questlon.
Th1: group will coordlnate mm the AIHC and CMA'S osa Commlttee, as
well as counterpart organlzatlons 1n the 1ndustry.
Durlng the comlng months and years, ms must contlnue to formulate and
1mplement programs to deal mm 1nternatlonal chemlcal controls. We Will
need to 1dentlfy and analyze natlonal and 1nternatlonal health and
envlronmental lssues of concern to the v.5. chemlcal 1ndustry. As rlslng
expectatlons and concerns develop worldwlde on chemlcal contamlnatlons,
w Will need to develop posltlons responslve to these concerns, develop
strategy and actlon plans and use and coordlnate approprlate 1ndustry
resources.
1n managlng these lssues we must do more to establlsh and malntaln
natlonal and 1nternatlonal relatlons necessary for effectlve dlssemlnai
tlon and exchange of 1nfomatlon. To do so means worklng mm other
trade assoclatlons 1n the v.5. and 1n forelgn lands, worklng mm the
approprlate agencles and representatlves of the v.5. .and forelgn
governments, wherever approprlate, and Hlth 1nternatlonal organlzatlons
such as UNEP. DECD. etc.
1n our actlvltles we contlnue m examlne new channels for the flow of
1nfomatlon 1n order m 1dentlfy lssues and to develop posltlons on
these lssues. A5 1n the past, He Will develop numerous posltlon papers
where needed, reports and documents, and brlng them to the attentlon of
forelgn chemlcal 1ndustry trade assoclatlons, and, where necessary, to
contlnue our threat trade assoclatlon personal contacts.
CMA 039013
74m concluslon. there 1: much for ms to do 1n the next 5710 years. The
crltlcal questlon remalns, how to balance ms resources and capabllltles
mm the needs as they develop. I and my assoclates Hill contlnue to
keep you 1nfomed on these matters and to seek help and guldance when
needed.
If you have any questlons,
tune.
I would be pleased to accept them at thls
Thank you for your contlnued 1nterest and support.
CMA
CMA 039014
EXHIBIT I
TREASURER...S REPORT
Seven Months Endlng December 31, 1992
Th1: report will be prepared and dlstrlbuted followlng the end of
the month.
For your reference, the followlng 15 provlded:
e
The orlglnally approved and amended budget and fundlng for the
flscal year beglnnlng June 1, 1992 and endlng May 31, 1933.
e
The approved budget for the separately funded Blamedlcal and
Envlronmental Speclal Program area as amended.
CMA
CMA mama
CHEMICAL mmmmmms ASSOCIATION
ORIGINALLY APPROVED AND AMENDED swam AND FUNDING mu THE
Flscal Year Beginning June 1, 1992 and endlng May 31, 1993
ammmm:
Membershlp Dues
Investment Revenue
Revenue from (or Dues Support my
speclal Program Areas
Drlglnal
1992793
Annual Budget
Amended
1992793
Annual Budget
5 9,950,500
1, Dan, nun
9,525, nun
1,250, nun
Full Use of Prevlously Accumulated
Communlcatlon Program Funds
Meetlngs (net of expensesy
TOTAL REVENUE
3,745, 500
1,995,100
20,500
2nernnn
591,100
147, am
514, 909,300
513, 312,500
DIRECT woman ACTIVITIES:
General Counsel
Government Relatlons
Internatlonal Trade Actlvltles
state Actlvltles Program
Chemlcal Industry's Communlcatlons Program
Technlcal Admlnlstratlon
Health. Safety 51 Chemlcal Regulatlons
Envlronmental Actlvltles
Dlstrlbutlon. Enequ, Enqlneerlng
Chemtrec
Dutslde Legal Fees
Dutslde Consultlng
TOTAL
971,700
900,700
245,100
251,200
4, 953, gun
273, 500
790,400
737, 500
450,100
542,500
1, sun, nun
795, nun
934,400
755,500
231,100
333,500
3,555, gun
255, 300
711,100
599, gun
4m, gun
618, nun
1, sun, nun
795, nun
512,512,900
510, 951,500
513,100
499, 300
492.200
452,200
TOTAL
TOTAL EXPENSES
514, 909,300
513, 057,500
M55
UNALLDCATED MANAGEMENT AND GENERAL
svppom ACTIVITIES:
Executlve Department
Accountlng a Busmess Servlces
Prlntlng, Dlstrlbutlon, Computer 5:
Infomatlon Servlces
Contrlbutlon to (Use of 7 Reserves
\ Aummum pgnsomm
Notes
244, gun
14a
The above budget and fundlng does n t 1nclude the actlvltles and 15 staff of
the separately funded Blamedlcal and anlr run ntal Speclal Programs area.
*3CHEMICAL mmmmmms ASSOCIATION
APPROVED swam AND FUNDING mu
BIOMEDICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIAL woman:
Flscal Year Beginning June 1, 1992 and endlng May 31, 1993
1992793
Amended
REVENUE;
Overhead Relmbursement
Investment Revenue
Publlcatlon Sales
TOTAL REVENUE
225, nun
1, nun
902,500
EXPENSES:
Salarles 51 Related Expense
Employee Beneflts
Travel & Staff Training
Dues. Subscrlptlons & Publlcatlons
Dutslde Prlntlng a Graphlcs
Meetlngs & Workshops
Dlrect Postage, Frelght 2 Dellvery
Dlrect Supplies 51 General Offlce
Taxes 51 Insurance
Rent & Occupancy
Common Cost Expenses
Admlnlstratlve Support:
Technlcal Admlnlstratlon
Accountlng
Offlce of General Counsel
Prlntlng n Dlstrlbutlon
442,100
92,900
11,100
1,700
700
1.100
23.500
25.200
93.500
49.100
74.500
32.300
27.300
75,000
TOTAL
gen, nun
EXCESS REVENUE mxpmsgsy
...At 1:: September meetlng, the Executlve Commlttee approved an 1ncrease 1n
authorlzed personnel to 15 prlnclpally because of the recently added
Methylenedlanlllne program, the cost of whlch Will be recovered from per
hour program charges.
AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL
15
CMA 039017
EXHIBIT J
SPECIAL woman: ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Dbjectlves
SPAC Hill advlse the Executlve Commlttee on the
acceptance of new programs, ensure that all
programs are conducted 1n a manner conslstent
mm cm pollcy and Hlth the Speclal Programs
Guldellnes, revlew and make recommendatlons
on all advocacy and research programs, and
coordlnate the actlvltles of programs mm
thelr respectlve standlng commlttees. Current
programs are:
Alkanolamlnes
Acrylonltrlle
Allyl Chlorlde
Arsenlc
Benzene
Butylated Hydroxytoluene
Chlorobenzenes
Epoxy Reslns
Ethylene mbmmde
Ethylene chhlorlde
Ethylene Dxlde
Fluorocarbons
Glycol Ether:
Methylenedlanlllnes
Ketones
Phosgene
Polychlorlnated Blphenyl
Phthalate Esters
Rubber Addltlves
Styrene
Tltanlum Dloxlde
Toluenedlamlnes
Trlchloroethylene
Vlnyl Chlorlde
Vlnylldene Chlorlde
21m; Dlalkyl Dlthlpphosphates
Recommendatlons
Extend authorlzatlon of SPAC for one year.
Impact
Money
Actlon Requlred
There Will be no dues impact.
Company
Personnel:
One representatlve on the Commlttee
from each of 9 companles.
Staff
Personnel:
One staff executlve coordlnatlng
the work of the commlttee.
No
addltlonal staff requlred.
Approval of recommendatlon.
CMA
CMA meme
EXHIBIT
k
pnoposm woman on ALKANDLAMIN'ES
Problem/Bacquound"
In 1979 a feedlng study conducted 1n Japan
1nd1cated that trlethanolamlne 15 a suspect
carclnogen.
Revlew of thls study by
1ndustry sclentlsts identified several areas
1n whlch the study may be flawed, 1nclud1ng
the posslble fomatlon of nltrosamlnes 1n
the test dlet.
Nevertheless. cosmetlcs and
surfactant manufacturers have expressed a
concern over the Japanese data.
In
addltlon, trlethanolamlne has been nomlnated
m the Natlonal Toxlcology Program for
testlng 1n the areas of phamacoklnetlcs,
mutagenlclty, reproductlon and
carclnogenlclty.
The four manufacturers of trlethanolamln
reached agreement on a research program and
asked cm to set up a Program on thls
chemlcal.
Accordlngly, the Speclal Programs
Dlvlslon convened an exploratory meetlng
where the group wrote a program charter and
tentatlve budget.
The Program was revlewed
and recelved favorable responses by the
Speclal Programs Advlsory Commlttee (SPAC>
and CMA staff.
The Panel will conduct 14 and Bniday skln
palntlng studles on trlethanolamlne and
provlde these ...data...7 to NTP.
In addltlon,
demal metabollsm studles may be conduct d.
Dependlng upon the results of the Panelsponsored studles and the proposed mp
studles. the Panel may proceed to a demal
carclnogenlclty study.
Recommendatlons
The Executlve Commlttee accept SPAC'S
recommendatlon for approval for thls
program.
Impact:
Money
Partlclpatlng companles will support
program actlvltles and necessary overhead
charges“
Company Personnel
One representatlve from each
partlclpatlng company.
CMA Personnel
No addltlonal staff requlred.
Actlon Requlred"
Approval of Recommendatlon.
CMA
CMA 039019
T
exmm: 1
RESPONSE TO INQUIRY
What 13 the chemlcal 1ndustry's posltlon on Publlc Compensatlon?
Our 1ndustry 15 commltted to protectlng the publlc from the
health and safety rlsks of chemlcals and waste dlsposal sltes.
Several government and prlvate organlzatlons have studled the
unpact of chemlcals and waste dlsposal sltes on publlc health
but none has establlshed on a sclentlflc basls that there 15 a
broad health problem.
Therefore. the chemlcal 1ndustry strongly
supports and encourages contlnued data collectlon and analysls m
detemlne the extent of any posslble health effects 1n thls area.
Such data collectlon 15 already mandated by exlstlng statute.
Untll the nature and scope of thls lssue 15 better understood 1:
would be unwlse to create a broad new publlc health compensatlon
system.
In the meantlme. current compensatlon systems such as
Soclal Securlty, Worker's Compensatlon, the courts and prlvate
1nsurance. should be adequate to protect 1nd1v1duals who may have
a legltlmate basls for seeklng rellef.
The chemlcal 1ndustry 15
prepared to cooperate 1n the collectlon, analysls and 1nterpretatlon
of 1nfomatlon needed to establlsh a sound understandlng of the
health rlsks assoclated Hlth waste sltes.
J
1
Would your 1ndustry support the Asbestos Coalltlon Proposal?
The chemlcal 1ndustry Will not support the chemlcal supplement
to the Asbestos Proposal.
Slnce data does not exlst that 1nd1cates
any major health effects from chemlcals 1: would be totally erroneous
to group chemlcals, Hlth thelr Very dlfferent characterlstlcs and
effects. together Hlth asbestos.
Chemlcal Manufacturers Assoclatlon
Board of Dlrectors M etmg
CMA 039020
exmm:
M
MEMBER SERVICES DEPARTMENT
STATUS upon TO THE BOARD 0F DIRECTORS
JANUARY 11,
1993
Member Servlces 15 two years old thls month.
Slnce
the report of a year ago,
state chemlcal groups' acmw
1t1e5
have accelerated.
At that time, there were elghteen
organlzatlons Hlth whlch we worked. Today there are 24 1n
19 states.
The Ibervllle Chemlcal Industry Councll was conned 1n
Louisiana. 1:, llke the counclls 1n Ruler Parlshes and Lake
Charles. serves 1n an autonomous satelllte capaclty to the
Loulslana Chemlcal Assoclatlon.
A chemlcal 1ndustry commlttee, under the wing of the
Assoclated Industrles of Kentucky, was organlzed 1n
November.
We now have relatlonshlps mm two local counclls 1n
ohm Clnclnnatl and Cleveland.
The ohm Chemlcal Councll
15 worklng mm them as 1ndependent satellltes and hopes to
am 1n the fomatlon of other Similar local groups.
An effort was made by companles m establlsh a group 1n
South Carollna. mule well supported by a large majorlty of
concerned flrms, the matter 15 now on hold. There was deflnlte
opposltlon from a few companles who felt 1nterests were belng
served by the State Chamber of Commerce and the South Carollna
Textlle Manufacturers Assoclatlon. Marketlng conslderatlons
150 were 1nvolved 1n the declslon.
e are 1n 3 handiholdlng stage Hlth an lllideflned,
edgllng group 1n Wlsconsln, whlch dld send a representatlve
t the Second Annual Meetlng of State Drganlzatlons 1n Chlcago
1 st October.
5 ates mm Vlable organlzatlons, excludlng South Carollna
a d Wlsconsln. 1nclude:
A abama. Callfornla, Connectlcut.
u laware. Louisiana, Kentucky, Mlchlgan, 1111mm, Missouri,
New Jersey, New York, Dhlo, Pennsylvanla, Tennessee, Texas,
V1 glnla and West Virginia.
Ne rly every group Either has greatly expanded 1:: Scope
of operatlons or 15 well along 1n planned expanslons. Notable
ex ples are Callfornla, 1111x1915, Mlssourl and Dhlo. All
gr ups, however. are concerned Hlth the need to 1ncrease
cm 039021
me ershlp and 1nst1tute a dues structure whlch Will make
po slble carrylng out projects 1n support of thelr programs.
Th y are maklng ever greater use of CMAigenerated materi
la 5 and are calllng on me and others 1n the cm departments
to asslstance. Slmllarly, they are now drawlng progresslvely
mo e on each other W exchanglng 1nformatlon and Copylng
su cessful projects wlthout any feellng of damaged proprletary
1n erests.
Th re has grown a sense of unlty between state groups and
m h cm. The relatlonshlps are good, and they no longer feel
ch llenged or harbor the fear that am 15 attemptlng to take
th over.
Th latter point, however, always must be borne
1n 1nd.
Th e have been a few 1nstances when cm commlttee
me ers or staff have been percelved as dlctatlng to a group.
The e have been due to mlsunderstandlngs, at tunes on both
51 s, and rather qulckly corrected.
Dur mg the past year, 1 have met, on 1nv1tatlon, mm the
boa d5 of the Dhlo and Callfornla Counclls; commlttees of those
1n mo and Louisiana; attended and spoke at the annual meetlngs of
con (:11: 1n Louisiana, New Jersey, Texas and Dhlo.
I also
worked on slte 1n organlzatlonal or restructurlng meetlngs 1n
Callfornla, So th Carollna and Kentucky.
am has asslstd or Will 35515: 1n membershlp drlves 1n
New Jersey, (13 159mm, Kentucky, Dhlo, Alabama, 111mm: and
Missouri.
Usually a lettr 15 sent to cm member companles 1n
a targeted Sta e urglng partlclpatlon.
1: 15 Signed in
Presldent R013 :1,
Further, he an Vice Presldent Geraldlne
Cox are sought after as speakers and as representatlves to
meet local rep-rters 1n all medla branches.
t
valously, a g eat deal of contact 15 malntalned by letter
and telephone, plus Visits to cm by state group leaders.
The Local Lead-rshlp Newsletter 15 one of our prune means
of contact.
Copies of the last two lssues Will be dlstrlbuted
at the Board M-etlng.
One summarlzes the Second Annual Meetlng
of State Drganzatlons.
The other analzes on page one the
crlthues of a tendees at the meetlng.
1: also provld-s 1n,
51gb: 1nto the 1nput we recelve from the groups and the cross*
fertlllzatlon aklng place.
Since the flrs iSSuE,
January/
February 1932, clrculatlon has grown to 17m from approxlmately
sun as state my cups and CMA member companles have requested
addltlonal Co as.
Drlglnally, 1: was thought four lssues a year would sufflce.
The amount of nfomatlon forced us to produce 51x.
We now are
faced mm the posslblllty of issuing 10 and probably 12 a year
to report all he actlvltles on a more tlmely basls.
cm 039022
*3Desp1te eco omlc condltlons, attendance at the Second
Annual Meetln of State Drganlzatlons was down less than nine
percent.
Those attendl g were most enthuslastlc and look
forward to th- mum Annual :9 be held 1n conjunctlon mm
CMA'S Semlann 31 Meetlng 1n New York thls comlng November.
They were ple.sed that Lou Fernandez spoke at the dlnner
meetlng, just as they were that 3111 Slmeral dld so the
flrst year.
Your attentlo 15 called to the crlthues of
the meetlng 1 the Newsletter.
In September, Corky Caldwell reported to you on genera]:
lzed plans to 3 cm membershlp drlve.
1: was declde then
to delay unplmentatlon untll the economc cllmate unproved.
MeanwhllE, pr-gress 15 belng made on the development of materi
1315 m be usd.
We are not deendlng on 1deas generated
solely Within CMA but also are studylng campalgn materlals
used by other organlzatlons.
Hopefully, 19.3 will show
enough econom c 1mprovement to launch a drlve.
Shortly, rese.rch Hill begln for the productlon of our
mum analysl- of 41 states consldered m be of prune 1nterest
to the chemlc.l 1ndustry.
Th1: 15 a stallstlcal study whlch
ranks each st.te as m the chemlcal 1ndustry's:
e
e
e
e
Shlpments 1n ollars
Value added
Number of amp oyees
Percent of e loyees to all manufacturlng employees
Percent of e vloyees to state populatlon
Number of CMA member companles
Number of CMA member company plants
Number of CMA member companles mm SlDDmllllon
or
more 1n sales (Companies not 1dent1£1ed.7
A second port on of the study shows partlclpatlon, or
lack thereof, by cm member companles represented 1n those
states mm v able organlzatlons.
Actlon Requlr d;
None; 1nfomalon only
am
am 039023
T
exhlblt n
1
REPORT 0F THE TECHNICAL DIRECTOR
At retreats a d 1n speclal sesslons, cm A commlttees and
staff set prl-rltles and developed lssue management plans
and prellmlna y E“! 93794 budget.
Technlcal Dep-rtment presentatlons:
I
4
11
Alabama chem 31 Industry Councll, Montgomery, AL,
Toplc:
Hazardous was a Management Challenge of
e
Amerlcan Soclty for Quallty Control, Boston, MA.
Toplc:
Quallty Contr-l 15 a Foundatlon of Quallty
Regulatlons.
e
Amerlcan Soclty for Quallty Control, Atlantlc Clty,
Toplc:
Quallty Assur-nce Aspects of TSCA and
RCRA.
R. P. Schumac er
a
Chamber of Co meme, Lake Charles. LA.
Toplc: Update
on Envlronme 31 Issues Affeetlnq the Chemlcal Indus*
try.
a
Chrlstlan Erhdcastlng Network "The 700 Club",
Washlngton, u .
Toplc:
Informatlon date on
Current Rese. ch 1nto the Ozone Depletlon Issue.
L. A. Spurlo
a
Colorado Bar "ssoclatlon Annual Meetlng, Colorado
Sprlngs, co.
Toplc: Hazar-us Waste Sltlnq.
w. Carroll
e
Natlonal 501 d Waste Management Annual Meetlng,
Lake Clty, Ur.
Toplc:
"cammm W nd Waste
Dlsposal."
e
Rutgers Unlvrslty, New Brunswlck, NJ.
Product Safe-y.
By: M. Frelfld
a
Virginia Cab e Televlslon Network, Alexandrla, VA.
Toplc:
EPA'S Proposd Revlslons to the Water Quallty
Standards Imlementlng Regulatlons.
Carroll
I
:'I
4
Toplc:
531:
Worker
The Technlca Dlrector partlclpated 1n 21 televlslon, 29
radlD, and 1‘ prlnt 1ntervlews Since October.
These 1nteri
Vlews were 1 Toledo and Cleveland. ca; Chlcago, IL; Wash?
lngton, DC; prlanleld, Worcester, and Boston, MA; Atlanta,
GA; Montgome y, AL; Oklahoma Clty, 0K; Provldence, RI
macaw Laf.yette and Lake Charles, LA (twlcey; and New
she appeared on ABC's nghtllne 1n October and
Vlslted two hemlcal plants W one 1n Texas and one 1n Rhode
Island.
cm 039024
2
The Technlca Dlrector and Deputy Technlcal
partlclpated 1n 3 twoiday medla training program.
Dlrector
The CHEMTREC Dlrector conducted medla tours 1n 551: Lake
Clty, UT, an 1n Waco and Dallas, TX, 1nclud1ng nine tele*
usmn, save radlo and four newspaper 1ntervlews.
Envlroni
mental Progr. s Dlrector and staff conducted medla tours 1n
San AntonlD, Beaumont, Port Arthur. and Corpus Chrlstl, TX,
on hazardous waste and solld waste iSSuES, 1nclud1ng ten
televlslon. our radlo and three edltorlal board 1ntervlews.
CHEMICAL TRA SPDRTATIDN EMERGENCY RESPONSE CENTER (cazmnmy
The CHEMTREC Dlrector and CMA Legal staff partlclpated 1n
the Natlonal Transportatlon Safety Board hearlng on the
September 29 lelngston, LA, traln derallment.
The November 30*December 1 cmmmc workshop 1n Dallas
was cancelle because of 1nsufflc1ent reglstratlon.
ENVIRONMENTA pnocmms
The Envlronmntal Dlvlslon managed the FMC'S semlannual
Envlronmental Update 1n Houston, TX.
One hundred 1xty*51x
people attened from 70 chemlcal companles.
Over onsithl d
of the attenees were actlve partlclpants 1n the Texas
Chemlcal Cou C11.
u. Carroll c-ordlnated the hazardous waste program at the
cm Semlannu-l Meetlng.
A. 3111, aha rman of the mast
dent's some 1 on Envlronmental Quallty, F. Byrd, Procter &
Gamble. and v. McLelsh. (noted authory gave presentstlons.
R. Romano pa tlclpated at the Fourth Annual Southwestern
Spllls Confe ence held 1n Corpus Chrlstl, Texas, from
September 27 29, 1932.
u. Carroll .‘ d J. Mayhew completed
an 1ntenslve twoiday medla training course conducted for cm
by Executlve Televlslon Workshop.
cm Waste M nagement Plan
D. Carroll staffed the Hazardous Waste Strategy Group to
develop a Cu rehenslve waste management plan for CMA.
The group 1 made up of the commlttee chalrmen and one
other repreentatlve from the Envlronmental Management,
Government 'elatlons, and Communlcatlons Commlttees.
The
chalrmen m 1 make a presentatlon to the Executlve Com?
mlttee at 1 5 January meetlng.
Bollars Bur mg wastes
J. Mayhew m-t mm EPA offlclals from Clnclnnatl, ca.
Washlngton, DC, and Research Trlangle Park, NC, to
dlscuss ong-lng EPA studles of holler: burnlng waste
cm 039025
N
3
materlals.
The meetlng helped
tlon dupllc.tlon.
to ellmlnat data
colletk
RCRA Land u sposal Regulatlons
J. Mayhew a d the RCRA Regulatlons Task Group met mm
EPA 955mm 5 and other 1ndustry groups to dlscuss prob?
lems mm t e statlstlcal procedures 1n the RCRA land
dlsposal reulatlons.
If corrects, many false 1nd1cai
tlons of le.kage at land dlsposal facilities will be
ellmlnated. .
RCRA Amendmnts
J. Mavhew mt mm R. Lavelle and J. SklnnEr. EPA, to
dlscuss the RCRA Amendments.
cm and EPA exchanged p051*
tlon papers on modlfylng the exlstlng amendment languaoe.
RCRA Land u sposal Regulatlons
Comments we a submltted to EPA on November 23, 1992, on
Permlttlng .tandards for Land Dlsposal Facllltles and
Permlttlng eaulrements for Land Dlsposal Facilities.
The regulat ons are the key element 1n the pemlts cm
member comp mes Will have to obtaln for land dlsposal
facilities or solld/hazardous wastes.
I
P. Palmer. Iu Font, testlfled before the Subcommlttee on
Natural Res-urces, Agrlculture Research and Envlronment,
Commlttee o Sclence and Technology, vs House of Repre*
sentatlves, addresslng the technlcal adequacy of EPA'S
land dlspos-l regulatlons.
RCRA Survey
cm submlttd comments to EPA on December 3, 1932, on the
"Hazardous aste Management System: Standards Appllcable
to Generato s of Hazardous Haste and Standards Appllcable
to Owners a d Operators of Hazardous Haste Treatment,
Storage, an Dlsposal Facilities".
cm Volced ts con*
cerns about substltutlng EPA'S proposed RCRA survey for a
unlfom ann 31 report.
RCRA Testl . Contract
I
In Decembe cm 1n1tlated a contract to evaluate EPA'S
537945 "Tes Methods for Evaluatlng 591m Haste, Physlcal
Chemlcal Me hods."
The study 1 deslgned to assess the
effectlven- s of exlstlng analytlcal methods 1n mommy
mg Append > VIII compounds, for purposes of detemlnlng
compllance 1th the RCRA land dlsposal regulatlon.
Study
results m 1 be avaliable 1n March"1983.
cm 039025
4
Tort Law Sludy
The Tort L.w study Work Group evaluated the ten recommeni
datlons 5e. forth 1n the recently lssued tort law study.
In addltlo , the work group developed a brlef summary of
the study, an unpact statement for State contact dlstrk
butlon, a roposed work plan to meet the posslble leglsi
latlve eve ts and a press statement on the study.
These
materlals ere consolldated 1nto a brleflng package for
the Strate-y Dptlons Group before the Tort Law Study Work
Group was nlsbanded.
t
1
Groundwate Pollcy
The Ground ater Task Group contlnues m monltor EPA'S dE*
Velopment me a Natlonal Groundwater Pollcy, whlch has
been refered to the Cablnet Councll.
Subject to thelr
approval, he pollcy should be publlshed for publlc com?
men: early 1n 1933.
Although he pollcy generally has
not been m.de publlc, CMA has been able to work mm FpA
1n the dra tlng process.
I
F1Ve*Plant Study
G. stanko. Shell. and J. Norrls, CIEArGBIGY. testlfled
at a meetl g of the Envlronmental Englneerlng Commlttee,
EPA Selena Advlsory Board.
The commlt ee revlewed the
data from he CHA/EPA F1Ve*Plant Study and from EPA'S
Verlflcatl-n phase program for developmg effluent
guldellnes
I
water Qualty Crlterla
Gamble. pa tlclpated at an EPAieoordlnated workshop coni
slderlng aternatlve approaches for developlng human
health basd water quallty Criteria.
DMR/QA Proram
In Novembe. cm proposed an evaluatlon, for submlttal to
EPA, of th- second phase of the Dlscharge Monltorlng Raf
port/Quall y Assurance (omr/q37 program.
EPA'S stats*
tlcal date 1natlon of acceptance and warnlng limit: was
based on r-sults from the flrst DMR/DA program.
For that
reason. t - 11mm: are 5:111 serlously flawed.
Water Qual ty Standards
T. Hooghee, Monsanto, and s. Cunnlngham, vmon Carblde,
have contl ued to work Hlth EPA'S Standlng Work Group on
Water Monltorlng Wasteload Allocatlon.
The work roup
has develmed and 15 presently revlewlng "Program
I
c
I
I
1
am 03902
5
Guldance lor
Alloca tlns".
water
Quallty
Monltorln-
and
Wasteload
Clean Watr Act Amendments
R. Romano and the Pretreatment Work Group met Hlth the
Assoclatlmn of Metropolltan Sewerage Agencles 1 AMSA 7 and
other 1ndstry representatlves attemptlng to develop a
consensus posltlon on amendlng the general pretreatment
provlslon of the Clean Water Act.
Effluent.u1dellnes
cm submlted 1nfomal comments on EPA'S draft contrac*
tor's repurt on the quanlc, Plastlc, and Synthetlc
Industry' Effluent Guldellnes support documents.
hpon
revlslon. the documents will com the technlcal basls for
EPA'S proosed effluent guldellnes.
Sectlon 29 Comments
cm subm ted comments on proposed "Water Quallty Plan?
mm; and anagement" revlsed regulatlons.
These proosed
regulatlo s detemlne how states conduct areaiwlde water
plannlng fforts.
Effluent uldellnes
cm repreentatlves met several tunes Hlth the EPA staff
that 15 -Velop1ng BAT/BPT guldellnes for the organlc,
plastlcs, and synthetlc 1ndustry.
The purp-e of the
dlscussl- s 15 to advocate how effluent llmltatlons
should be developed.
Nonattal ent thlgatlon
CMA'S pe tlon for a rehearlng before the DC Clrcult
Court of ppeals 1n mum v. Gorsuch, (1.e.. Court of
Appeals Valldated "bubble concept" 1n dlrty alr areas)
was dem-d on October 27, 1932.
cm, 1n onjunctlon mm
the Amer can Iron and Steel Instltute, has ﬁlled a
petition for certlorarl mm the Supreme Court.
Fugitive Emlsslons Comments
In respo se to a request from EPA, CMA ﬁlled addltlonal
comments on October 26, 1932, concernlng the EPA Addy
tlonal I formatlon Document (AIIN for fugitive emlsslon
sources.
Prellmln.ry results from the CMA flare study
were use to lllustrate the effectlveness of flares 1n
controll ng fugitive emlsslons.
cm men a
a
Emlsslon Monltorlng
on nece war 5 , 199 2 , CMA submltted comments to EPA on
nltrogen oxlde emlsslon monltorlng from statlonary
sources.
Comments concerned the use of an lon
chromataraphlc technlque (Method 7A7 to replace the wet
chemlcal method.
ND... m ed Heaters
cm subm tted 1nfomal comments on EPA'S draft document
entltled "Interlm Data Collectlon and Analysls of unx
Emlsslon from Flred Heaters."
EPA'S do ument Vlll pro*
wide the technlcal basls for developmg a new Source per*
formance standard from MD}: flred heaters.
I
CMA/EPA 1r Program Coordlnatlon
I
The Alr ’ollutant Effects and Process Emlsslon Regulai
tlons T. k Groups met mm EPA'S Offlce of Research and
Develop -nt and Offlce of Alr Quallty Plannlng and Stand?
ards 1n research Trlangle Park, NC,
As a reult of these
meetlng, CMA 15 worklng closer and earller Hlth the
Agency n the crlterla document development and standard
settlng process.
These (1 anges Will give CMA an oppori
tunlty .o 1nfomally comment on draft documents.
u 15m BtJTIDN .
I
I
14
t
1
1
ENERGY . - ENGINEER I MG
R311 Ma ket Domlnance
am me 5 on r311 market domlnance were upheld by the Us
Court 0 Appeals for the Flfth Clrcult.
The Intrstate
Commerc Commlsslon (mm was told 1: could not conslder
product and geographlc competltlon when determlnlng whe*
ther a 511mm has "effectlve monopoly".
Marltlm Leglslatlon
Marltlm- leglslatlon was revlsed so that both the Senate
and Bone Verslons are acceptable to chemlcal shlppers.
The but passed the House but Senate actlon 15 doubtful.
R311 Co ensatlon
R311 c. compensatlon proceedlngs have been reopened by
the m .
R311 1 terests clalm that the $400,000,000 an*
nual p.yments won earller by CMA are too high.
Tank C.r Agreement
The ta k car agreement (to provlde antltrust protectlon
to shlpers dlscusslng compensatlom was amended to
improv- chances for prompt ma approval.
r
1
1
cm 03.029
7
p Laca d5
Proble s Hlth Department of Transportatlon/Materlals
Transpurtatlon Bureau (DDT/MTB) placards staylng on
trucks was reported to transportatlon contacts.
Dlstrlutlon
Commlt ee
Retrea
The Dltrlbutlon Commlttee held a retreat 1n October. and
1dent1 led major lssues and developed plans for 1::
future actlvltles.
Actlo Update
1
A D15 1butlon Actlon Update 1: Scheduled for January 19,
1933.
Sever.l nonlndustry speakers have been 1nv1ted.
Tank lar Programs
I
The cmmlttee 15 developlng a proposed program to 1mprove
tank ar loadlng and inspection programs.
51m11.r efforts
are blng made by Assoclatlon of Amerlcan Rallroads/Bureau
of Ex.loslves.
Revle of exlstlng procedures 15 now uni
derwa .
Packalng Proposal
Draft comments were prepared on the DDT/MTB proposal to
Chang :9 performance based package regulatlons.
The
comma ts Will be submltted January 13, 1933.
Natu .1 Gas
1
Issu-s
cm rote to members of the House and Senate 1n December
urgl g thelr opposltlon m leglslatlve proposals that
woul freeze prlces, extend wellhead price controls and
abroate certaln exlstlng contract provlslons.
cm
reco mend: a comprehenslve resolutlon of the complex
natu 31 gas lssues rather than adoptlon of the placemeal
prop-sals offered durlng the postielectlon sesslon of
Cong e55.
Emerency Plannlng
cm uccessfully encouraged the Department of Energy
many to adopt a plan to dlstrlbute materlals from the
Str.teg1c Petroleum Reserve by means of an auctlon, and
to .119»: the Presldent maxlmum flexlblllty 1n respondlng
to .n emergency petroleum supply dlsruptlon.
Fue
Use Act
Imp ementatlon
Fln-l rules
we - lssued
fo Exlstlng Major FueliBurnlng Installatlons
Thy should
a . 039030
a
no pose Significant problems for cm members.
M.‘ y
rcommendatlons were adopted 1n the flnal rules.
p perwork
'eductlon
cm sub ltted comments to DOE on the cnlee Energy Coni
servatl-n Reportlng Program recommendlng that DOE not
make te-hnlcal changes to the reportlng methodology that
would b- costly to cm members, and that DOE delete amblguous parts of the report.
Reportl my program partlclnatlng members are also bemg surveyed to help detemlne
further unprovements.
As part of the comments to the omb on paperwork reductlon, cm also recommended that new data collectlon initiatives he subject to a publlc hearlng process, and that
survey nespondents be pemltted the option of reportlng
through a trade asso.clatlon to assure greater Confldeni
tlallty protectlon.
Natlona
1
1
I
1
I
Electrlal Coda
The Eng neerlng Advlsory Commlttee (EAcy submltted 45
comment- on preprlntlng the 1994 Natlonal Electrlcal
Code.
Amerlca Natlonal
standars
EAC votd on eight standards
Amerlca Natlonal Standards.
propose
for
adoptlo
as
NFPA St.ndards Councll
cm ask-d the NFPA Standards Councll to return proposed
coﬂgeneatlon requlrements to commlttee because of the
needles- heavy expense to 1ndustrv.
ISO pum Standards
EAC subltted cm Vlews on ISO chemlcal pump standardur
tlon m the n5 Technlcal Advlsory Group.
WEALTH.
SAFETY A u CHEMICAL REGULATIONS
PMN Exemtlon Rules
Clay an B.
New t express CMA'S concern
regardl g the proposed PMN exemptlon rules.
Speclfli
ally, c A belleves the polymer proposal 1: so burdensome,
few comanles Will use 1:.
on Octoer 4, cm ﬁlled comments on these proposed rules.
cm 1nfrmed EPA that the lowivolume chemcal, 51te*llm1ted 1ntemedlates proposal would beneflt the 1ndustry.
I
am 03931
9
The Assnclatlon proposed a clarlflcatlon of the 1ndustry
quallfld expert's role.
cm offred major modlflcatlons
to the olymer proposal.
The Assnclatlon commented that
new pol er materlals should be exempt from the full PMN
process accordlng to broad categorles based on average
molecul.r welght.
cm: de sloped a comprehenslve plan to portray the hens?
51:: of the proposed PMN exemptlon rules to Varlous audk
ences.
These 3 dlences could affect the outcome of the
flnal r les.
The camalgn 1ncludes meetlngs Hlth the
press. .nd dlstrlbutlng a comprehenslve 1nformatlon pack*
age to ongress, trade assoclatlons and the press.
on Nova ner 1, cm partlclpated 1n EPA'S publlc hearlng
regardl g the proposed PMN exemptlon rules.
cm: ch.1man. was the spokesman.
cm amp aslzed the
polnts ads 1n 1:: comments and addressed speclflc con*
cerns r.1sed by the Natural Resources Defense Councll and
other 1 terested groups.
on Nova ner. 30, cm ﬁlled comments respondlng m speclflc
EPA que-tlons and assertlons made by publlc 1nterest
groups .t the November 1, EPA publlc hearlng.
In thes-
comment- CMA provlded further justlflcatlon for relaxlng
the burensome PMN exemptlon proposal for polymers.
cm: Inomatlonal Meetlng
am: he d an 1nformatlonal meetlng on September 15, ad?
dressln the proposed PMN exemptlon rules and the flnal
TSCA Setlon may and 91:17 reportlng rules.
Approxl
mately 0 people attended the meetlng.
Workshov on Data
Quallty Indlcators
The 61ml report of the Workshop on Data Duallty 1nd1cai
tors wa- completed 1n October.
cm sposored the work?
shop 1n cooperatlon mm the Natlonal Academy of Salem
ces, th- Federatlon of Amerlcan Socletles for Experlmeni
:31 B10 oqy, the Natlonal Bureau of Standards and the
Envlron ental Protectlon Agency.
Copies ms the report
can be urchased for $5.00 from CMA.
Reportl g on
TSCA Setlon
Rule
on Nova ner 10, 1932, CMA sent a letter to EPA requestlng
a anida extenslon of the reportlng perlod for the TSCA
Sectlon 91:17 rule.
EPA slated to deny thls generlc
request Instead, the Agency chose to conslder 1nd1v1dual
company requests.
cm the encouraged 1:: member compani
1a: to ubmlt 1nd1v1dual requests for extenslons.
EPA
has grated extenslons for many of those requests.
am 03932
cm: Logikange Plannlng
am: he d a plannlng retreat 1n November 1932.
Each CR:
member eveloped lssues of 1nterest m hls/her company
regardlg the regulatlon of chemlcals and product safety.
The com lttee selected the lssues of most unportance m
the 1ndstry and the Assoclatlon.
mm: m 1 threat 1::
actlvlt es and resources to address those lssues next
year.
Impact . alysls
Responss, or promlsed responses, to the CMA
company actlvltles to reduce unreasonable rlsk
about 1m.
survey ..n
now tot.l
nght .. Know Actlvltles
Communly lssues, the last 1nsertlon 1n the nght to Know
Packet. was completed December 2, 1932.
The ngt to
Know In omatlon Packet 15 belng dlstrlbuted to state and
local Cemlcal Industry Counclls.
Conferece on Reproductlon Rlsks
The 053 Commlttee 15 plannlng a twoiday conference on
Reprodutlve Rlsks. m be held 1n the spring of 1933.
Attendace Will be llmlted to CMA members.
speaker will
survey he sclentlflc and legal framework Hlthln whlch
reprodu tlve rlsks are evaluated and managed.
Repre*
sentatl as from member companles will present thelr
approac es :9 employee relatlons and reproductlve rlsk
managemnt.
Access
to
Employe Records
on Dcto er El, cm testlfled at an OSHA hearlng on
to Empl-yee Records [47 PR 30420, Julv 13, 19321.
Access
Perform nae Standards
A model balanced perfomance standard mun training,
work pr ctlces and equlpment requlrements) on Suhpart 3 Hazardous Materlals [45 PR 391097391091 was presented :9
OSHA on October 26, 1932.
Hazards Communlcatlons
Postihe ring CMA comments to DSHA'S notlce of proposed
rulemak mg on hazard communlcatlons were submltted
Novembe 1, 1932.
am 03933
Cancer
Pollcy
cm coments on an earlv draft of Part I W Natlonal
Cancer 'ollcy, from the Offlce of Sclence and Technology
Pollcy oments were submltted December 3, 1932.
Over
all. we belleve 1: 15 an excellent document.
OSHA Pr-posal on Benchmarks
for
State v ans
on nece ner 5, cm submltted comments on osaA's proposed
Benchma ks for State Plans [47 FR 503071.
Be cone rred
Hlth th Agency's 1ntent to 11m: state funds to permit
state a forcement stafflng levels no greater than those
for the federal government 1n each state.
Regulat-ry Impact Analysls
RISC co ented on the technlcal appendlces m EPA...5
guldell as for regulatory 1mpact analysls.
The comlttee
encouraed EPA to use reallstlc data and not try to quani
tlfy ph losophlcal concepts.
Risk/Cot Pollcy Model
RISC bean an 1nidepth revlew of EPA'S RCRA rlsk/cost
pollcy odel.
The modl 15 1ntended to help EPA set
waste m.nagement priorities and select strategles for
handlln waste streams.
1310mm L AMP ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIAL pmamms
Arsenlc
cm rep esentatlves met mm DSBA staff to dlscuss CMA
plans t- complete the analysls of the remalnlng data from
the Ana onda smelter workers exposed to arsenlc.
Extend?
mg the analysls would 1ncrease conslderably the statlsi
tlcal p-wer of the earller concluslon that there 15 no
1ncreasd resplratory cancer rlsk assoclated mm arsenlc
exposur below sun /1g/m".
Impllca lons of thls finding
are far reachlng as 1: demonstrates a safe level of expo*
sure to a presumed carclnogen.
cm askd OSHA m joln
1n competlng the analysls and to postpone concluslon of
the 1no ganlc arsenlc standard rulemaklng untll the
results are avaliable.
Benzene
Us manu acturers of benzene have completed a Bniday
benzene toxlcology study under the ausplces of CMA and
API. A raft flnal report 15 under revlew.
am 03934
flutvla ed
Hvdroxv oluene
c
The But lated Hydroxytoluene (BET) Panel declded m hlre
outslde counsel and to meet mm mm to dlscuss the pro*
posed 1 terlm raglllatlon on BET.
The Panl and counsel
Hill met Hlth a representatlve of the Joint mm/moy
Expert ommlttee on Food AddltlveS (many to determlne
what roe. 15 any, the Panel should take 1n sDonsorlna
researc to address mum's concerns.
Chlorobnzenes
cm relased a flnal report on a paradlchlorobenze n e
(PDCB7 nhalatlon teratology study 1n rabblts.
Exposur
to 0, 1.0, 300, or sun ppm PDCB was not embryotoxlc or
teratognlc 1n thls specles.
The stuy was the last 1n 3
serles .5 teratology studles on chlorobenzenes conducted
by the low Toxlcology Research Laboratory,
Epoxy Rslns
I
The Epo y Reslns Program Panel 15 collectlng and evaluati
mg prouctlon. use, exposure, envlronmental release and
health ffects 1nformatlon 1n order to work Hlth EPA to
develop a reasonable regulatory response to the ITC
recomme datlon.
Ethylen Dxlde
EPA accpted a study plan for Voluntary testlng of
ethylen- oxlde (Em.
so 15 1 eluded 1n the category of
alkyl eoxldes recommended by the ITC for testlng under
TSCA Se tlon 4157.
The stuy plan outllnes a program
deslgne to evaluate posslble reproductlve effects and
cytogen-tlc changes assoclated Hlth exposure to m.
OSHA an ounced a regulatory schedule for
tlon m h oral presentatlons 1n 3 Publlc
Researc Group/DSHA lawsult.
Notlce .5
maklng 5 Scheduled for June 1933.
m 1n asomr
Cltlzen Health
Propose Eula?
Fluoroc.rbons
The Balloon Intercomparlson Campalgn (BIC) 1: 1n the data
reductl-n stage followlng a successful fllght 1n Septem*
her 199 of four large balloons.
Th1: la nah represented
nearly = year of preparatlon and cooperatlon between say
entlsts from seven natlons W Belglum, France, Japan,
England Italy, Canada and the os.
Fundlng was provlded
by the artlclpatlng countrles, the Natlonal Aeronautlcs
and Spa e Admlnlstratlon, the Councll of European Com?
munltle and CMA.
Plans f-r BIC Phase II, scheduled for
1
c
1
am 03935
T
snrlng |983,
well unerway.
All of he 1nvest1gators
from 51 I Will partlclpate 1n BIC 11, mm several
addltlo 5.
lecol
Ether:
Two gly ol ethers, ethvlene glvcol monomethvl ether
mcmm .nd ethvlene glycol monoethyl ether (EGEE), are
belng r-Vlewed by EPA as part of the Exlstlng Chemlcals
Program.
The Che leals are at the mum stage of the
flve*st.ge revlew process.
The Pan-l will meet mm EPA
repress tatlves m determlne whether the Agency needs
addltlo 51 data that the Panel can provlde.
The Pan-l submltted test data m Callfornla OSHA for
thelr u a 1n evaluatlng Glycol Ether exposure levels.
The pan-l submltted comments on a draft Current Intellk
genes B lletln m NIDSH for revlslon before the flnal
documen 15 released.
The Pan-l submltted comments on the draft Chemlcal
Informs lon Proflle mum on EGEE acetate.
The pan-l submltted comments on
One rev ews of EGEE and mm.
the draft Prlorlty
Hazard
Level
r
I
Methyle edlanlllne
The Met ylenedlanlllne Program Panel proposed to EPA a
volunt. y testlng program 1n response to the Interagency
Testln Commlttee's recommendatlons on 4,4' *me thylenedl aniline.
The Vol ntary testlng program 1ncludes reproi
ductlve and teratology testlng.
Ketones
The tes rule on mesltyl oxlde (Mm Will be lssued 1n
Januar 1 993,
The P3 -1 will ask EPA to detemlne cost
distrlh tlon between the MD manufacturers.
Rubber ddltlves
The R ner Addltlves Program Panel has developed testlng
progr. to study the genotoxlc propertles of two rubber
chemlc. s, 2*mercaptobenzothlazole and 2*(morphollnoth107
benzot azole.
The P3 -1 15 also monltorlng the acmvr
tles of the Natlonal Toxlcology Program and the Inter*
agency Testlng Commlttee.
t
1
Phthal.te Esters
The Ph halate Esters Panel met Hlth the Consumer Product
Safety Commlsslon (CPscy staff to dlscuss technlcal 1n,
accurales 1n 3 report prepared by Arthur D. thtle on
am 03035
the us-s of and potentlal substltutes for phthalate
esters 1P5) 1n consumer products.
Th1: d-cument was
releas-d 1n Violation of Sectlon 611m of the Consumer
Produc- Safetv Act.
The P3 el ﬁlled comments Hlth CPsc's
penera counsel objectlng m the premature release.
The
Panel .159 submltted detalled technlcal comments to the
Econom cs Branch of CPSC.
The P3 el's Toxlcology Research Task Group (TRTcy met
Hlth csc toxlcologlsts m dlscuss the results of the
TRTG'S genotoxlclty testlng and CPsc's exposure studles.
The are staff will prepare a brleflng package and meet
Hlth t e Commlssloners to dlscuss thelr project on PE 1n
chlldrn's products.
The P3 el has requested an oppori
tunlty to comment on the brleflng package and meet mm
the Co mlssloners to present 1:: Vlew of PE toxlclty.
The P3 el submltted m EPA'S Test Rules Development
Branch flnal reports on Phase I of the Health Effects
Testln Program.
The re-ults of the research indicate
that D'HA, DEEP and the metabolltes of DEEP, map and
2733 as not genotoxlc.
The Pael submltted a proposal
effect- testlng on PE.
to EPA for Phase
II has th
The Pael met mm the Toy Manufacturer's Assoclatlon
(mm o descrlhe the Voluntary Testlng Program on Phthai
late Eters.
my: eneral counsel had recommended to
the me bershlp that they replace PE 1n chlldren's
produc s.
The Pond and Drug Appllcatlons Task Group (FDATG7 submlti
ted tat data on DEHA to FDA.
These wata were generated
as par of the Voluntary Test Program agreed to between
FDA an the nuns.
Polych orlnated Blphenyls
The P0 ychlorlnated Blphenyls (PC.B7 Program Panel sue?
cessfu ly convlnced EPA to drop the requlrement 1n 1::
second PCB rule that would have excluded only processes
Hlth n-nquantlflable releases of PCBS.
EPA'S 1nal rule
establshed numerlcal cutoffs for release deemed by EPA
to be he lowest practlcally measurable level.
on Novmber 1, 1932, EPA ﬁlled Hlth the Us Dlstrlct Court
of Appals a schedule for the thlrd rule that 1ncludes a
propos.l on December 1, 1933, and a flnal rule on July 1,
cm 03.037
EPA 1n1cated that addltlonal 1nfomatlon on PCB exposure
should he obtalned from 1nterested 1ndustry groups.
Styren-
NIDSH repared an external revlew draft of a Crlterla
Docume t on Styrene.
In the draft, NIDSH recommends that
the p -sent workplace standard of 100 ppm, 9 hr. tlmewelghted average away he lowered to 25 ppm, 10 hr. Twa ,
Hlth . Ceiling of 100 ppm.
cm s nmltted comments to
NIDSH -n December 1, 1932.
Altho h members of the styi
rene P.nel expressed concern Hlth data showlng ans dE*
pressl-n 1n humans at 100 ppm, the llmlted data dld not
suppo regulatory proceedlngs.
21m; - alkyldlthlophosphates
The 2 c Dlalkyldlthlophosphates 12mm Program Panel has
1n1t1. ed Phases II and III of a research program.
Phase
II 15 a 'stress' study 1n rabblts deslgned to evaluate
the r-le of stress 1n produclng testlcular effects 1n
rabbl 5.
Phase III conslsts of Ln Vltro mutagenlclty
testl g of several ZDDPS.
am
cm n 3039
EXHIBIT 0
ammu- 017 THE DIRECTOR OF GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
WILL]: M. STDVER
TAXATION;
TAX A - BUDGET DEVELOPMENTS
Follo mg the November mlditerm Congresslonal electlons. Presldent
Reaga sought to regaln leglslatlve momentum 1n Washlngton by returnlng
to th area of tax and budget lssues where he had won substantlal Vlctorles
durln- ms flrst 19 months 1n offlce.
In an effort to restore publlc enthuslasm for his economc program,
the Pesldent proposed to accelerate the scheduled thlrd year 1nd1v1dual
tax r.te cut from July to January of 1933. However, strong early Harnlngs
from 'epubllcan Leaders on Capltol 3111 convlnced mm that he dld not have
the Vtes to support such a step. Congresslonal concern over rlslng
unemp oyment and Federal deficit flgures cast serlous doubt on whether any
tax pogram could be passed 1n the postielectlon Speclal Sesslon.
The Pesldent also moved to demonstrate his concern over unemployment
and t e Admlnlstratlon's wllllngness to develop an effectlve jobs program.
Sensl L; that the hlghway program was the only avaliable leglslatlve Vehlcle
that ould be passed 1n the postielectlon sesslon, the Presldent threw the
full eight of ms offlce behlnd the Transportatlon Department's proposal
to exend the nghway Trust Fund and to 1ncrease the Federal exclse tax on
gasol he by 5 cents a gallon 7 these revenues 1ntended to complete and re*
bulld the natlon's brldges and hlghways. on December a, the House passed
the Au 1n15tratlon's proposal mm relatlvely few changes and Senate approval
was a pected to follow, but not wlthout a flght.
TAXAT ow;
ursc u DER REVIEW
Behlnw the scenes, the Admlnlstratlon was confrontlng another major
lssue of tax and trade pollcy. In early September, the v.5. Trade Ambassador's
offlc represented before the GATT Councll 1n Geneva that the Admlnlstratlon
would 1ntroduce leglslatlon to meet the objectlons m the Domestlc Interi
natlo 51 Sales Corporatlon mrscy provlslons of the Internal Revenue Coda
Volce by European and Canadlan members.
1: Ha reported that 1n the meetlng
of th Admlnlstratlon's Cablnet Councll just before Thanksglvlng there were
stron dlfferences over the proper scope of any leglslatlon to amend or m
repla e the arse provlslons. Trade Ambassador Brock and Commerce Secretary
Baldr dge strongly supported maintaining v.5. tax 1ncent1ves for trade
51m11.r to ursc. Equally strong 1n thelr opposltlon to ms: and any contlnued
tax 5 pport for Amerlcan exports were Treasury Secretary Regan and Budget
Dlrec or stockman.
In nu of thls dlsagreement, the Cablnet Councll deferred
takln flnal actlon on thls issue.
cm name
Throuhout tha fall. busmess representatlves 1n Washlngton have moved
to de slop a unlted posltlon on ursc.
In ge eral there 15 a strong consensus
for c-ntlnued tax 1ncent1ves for u.S. exports at least equal to ursc.
Since
there 15 currently no leglslatlon whlch has Admlnlstratlon support, the busmess
commu 1ty has malntalned unlty through adherence to common prlnclples m be
1nclued 1n amendatory leglslatlon.
cm h.s been actlve 1n the effort of busmess and allled trade representai
tlves to malntaln an effectlve tax program for exports. Our Tax Pollcy Commlttee
has r-Vlewed and reartlculated our posltlon on ursc so that our spokesmen can
contl us to partlclpate 1n the dlalogue on thls cruclal issue.
ENERG :
cous- SSIDNAL "QUICK nx" swam 0N NATURAL GAS mums
A 5e es of mu: have been 1ntroduced durlng the postielectlon sesslon
that ould essentlally freeze the wellhead prices of natural gas and extend
price controls. Leglslatlon proposed 1n both Houses would also provlde
55515 ance to the elderly and those on flxed or low 1ncome who are adversely
unpa ed by 1ncreased natural gas prlces. Some leglslatlve proposals further
abroated exlstlng contracts by calllng for the renegotlatlon of certaln
prov slons or alterlng of the price escalator clauses.
Propnents of accelerated and complete deregulatlon of natural gas are
now aced Hlth rairegulatlon pressures. Varlous cltlzen and labor groups are
suggstlng that natural gas decontrol 15 a matter of "heatlng or eatlng," and
that rhetorlc 15 belng taken up by a number of Congresslonal Members.
"Dea
Collague" letters are belng clrculated, and a concerted effort 1: belng made
to a tach language that would freeze gas prices to Either the hlghway/gasollne
excle tax measure or a contlnulng resolutlon for approprlatlons.
The .enate Flnance Commlttee has been the forum for a good deal of the
deb; e on whether the hlghway tax should be amended to 1nclude a natural gas
prl - freeze. The House has already passed a dlfferent Verslon of a hlghway
gas- 1ne exclse tax to 1ncrease jobs. Senate floor actlon on the hlghway
tax 1: expected to begln December 13 or 14, and that mu could be the target
of . natural gas control floor amendment. Senator Thomas F. Eagleton (Drum
15 -pearhead1ng the drlve. The Admlnlstratlon has not taken a Vlslbly actlve
rol 1n opposltlon to the Varlous leglslatlve proposals that would reregulate
gas on an interim basls. but a Presldentlal Veto could occur 15 a hlghway tax
ml passes that 15 loaded down mm "negatlve" amendments.
Sevral key members of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Commlttee
hav expressed opposltlon on jurlsdlctlonal and procedural grounds to any
"qu ck 61x... approach to the complex issue of natural gas pricing. A hearlng
on endlng leglslatlon has been scheduled for December 13 1n that Commlttee,
but the llmlted Hltness 115: 15 heavlly welghted mm Senators and groups
tha advocate a gas price freeze.
c A 039040
on he House 51dE, a hearlng has been scheduled for December 15 1n the
170-511 and Synthetlc Fuels Subcommlttee of the House Energy and Commerce
Co mlttee. Only Members have been 1nv1ted to testlfy. Full Commlttee
c 1rman John D. mngen (DrMIrlay and Subcommlttee Chalrman thp R. sharp
(171N710) have generally 1nd1cated that a "qulck 51x" approach 15 not approi
p late and that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commlsslon should deal Hlth
atural gas lssues 1n the shortitem.
CMA has sent to -Very Senator and every House Member 3 letter 1n opposltlon
m freezlng of .tural gas wellhead prices and extendlng of price controls. As
part of a cash: on effort. we are also meetlng mm key Senators to dlscuss
the deflclencles of exlstlng law regardlng natural gas and the need to deal mm
natural gas 155 -5 1n 3 comprehenslve manner 1n the next Congress.
mvmommn
CLEAN AIR ACT A NDMENT mummy
In the Congress ~nal postielectlon sesslon there has been no actlon on
amendments to t - Clean Alr Act desplte statements by Presldent Reagan and
Admlnlstratlon -fflclals that contlnue to alts thls as a top economlc priority.
Whlte House pre ure for a mu has not materlallzed.
Senate Majorlty leader Howard Baker and other Senate leaders 1nterested
1n Clean Alr Ac amendment needed to be convlnced by the Whlte House W not
just 1ndustry that passage of a mu thls year 15 essentlal. But several
Very controvers 51 lssues made agreement on a "short mu" 1mposslble. Thus,
the only Senate Vehlcle contlnues to be the unsatlsfaatory mu reported
November 15 by he Senate Envlronment and Publlc Works Commlttee, s. 3041
(Report No. 977557. Th1: b111, otherwlse known as the "Stafford 13111", 15
opposed by the ndustry Coalltlon as well as the Admlnlstratlon. The Sectlon
112 (hazardous .1r pollutant), acld raln and PSD (Preventlon of Significant
Deterloratlon) rovlslons are especlally damaglng.
Slnce the Nova -er 4 raielectlon of Envlronment Commlttee Chalrman
Robert Stafford mam who would Shepherd 5. 3041 on the Senate floor, he has
shown no 1nteret 1n further conslderatlon. There already are indications
that Envlronmen- Commlttee staff are preparlng "1mprovements" for the mu
next year. The enate Commlttee's loss of two northwestern members replaced
by another New lnglander and a mldiwesterner probably will be helpful to
1ndustry next y-ar.
In the HouSE, t e 1ndustry and Admmsuamomsupported Luken 13111 3.x.
5252, (severely damaged durlng markiup relatlve :9 PSD and Sectlon 1127 has
been pendlng 1n the Energy and Commerce Commlttee Since August. In the new
Congress, 1: 15 unclear whether the Commlttee balance of power will remaln
the 5mm. or ho and when a comprehenslve Clean Alr mu mlght be 1ntroduced.
Furthermore, we do not know whether Congressman James Broyhlll (Rina)
can contlnue to prevent passage of a Commlttee mu contalnlng adverse PSD
CMA 039041
or Sectlon 112 rovlslons. We do know that Congressman Bllly Tauzln (DiLA)
1ntends m actl ely address Sectlon 112 again. Tauzln CD’sponsored mm
Congressman Jams Florlo mimy the Sectlon 112 automatlc llstlng/dellstlng
amendment to H.'. 5252.
1: 15 entlrely 955mm that thls Commlttee Will
have an even stonger envlronmental :11: next year.
I
I
By m1d71983, :n- effort will be made to pass some type of Clean Alr
Act amendment 1 order to stave off EPA enforcement of sanctlons 1n areas
not attalnlng plmary amblent alr quallty standards. These sanctlons,
1nclud1ng constuctlon bans and wlthholdlng of Federal funds for transports?
tlon and sewage treatment projects, become effectlve December 31, 1992 but
are not 1mmedlaely enforceable.
mvmommT;
CLEAN WATER ACT AMENDMENTS stiw
c
Earller thls ye.r EPA leaders determlned there was not enough time for
Congress to con-lder a comprehenslve package of Clean Water Act amendments
that they had p oposed. A5 a result, the agency advanced a set of scaleddown amendments 1n the hope of maklng some changes now. However, the
announcement of the speclal postielectlon sesslon roused some hopes that
tune mlght be a allable for conslderatlon of a more comprehenslve package.
EPA'S sudden 5w tch 1n tactlcs created confuslon over what they want 1n the
way of amendmens.
t
I
I
Under the short b111, EPA 15 conslderlng major changes to the pretreat7
ment program, 11E: permlts for 10 years Hlth a "reopener clause..., partlal
delegatlon of t e mums program to the states, BAT deadllne extenslon to
July 1, 1999 m h the posslble option of 35 m 42 months to comply mm the
BAT deadllnes, nd the conslderatlon of dams as polnt sources.
Also belng cons dared 15 a study of the BAT modlflcatlons issue, whlch
15 of prune 1mp-rtance m the chemlcal 1ndustry. The study provlslon 15 a
recognltlon tha the BAT lssue 15 unportant, but the chemlcal 1ndustry feels
that a modlflca lon scheme should be leglslated now.
The senate Emu onment and Publlc Works CommlttEE, chalred by Senator
Robert Stafford mam. held a general busmess meetlng on December 9 and dld
not conslder or report on any of the comprehenslve Clean water amendments,
mm only 3 Ver short tune remalnlng for Congress to take actlon, 1: appears
unllkely that a y clean water amendments will pass thls year. Addlng m thls
concluslon 15 t a plan by Senator John chases mam, chalrman of the Envlroni
mental Pollutlo SubcommlttEE, to hold a hearlng on December 15, focuslng on
the future of t a Clean Water Act and publlc opinion polls. Senator chases
has 1nd1cated t at clean water amendments will be his number one prlorlty 1n
1993 and he Hll try to report amendments from his subcomlttee by March 15.
The Government 'elatlons Commlttee's Clean Water Act Task Group will con*
tlnue to work cm the necessary leglslatlve changes, partlcularly to the Best
Avallable Techmloqy (BAT) and pretreatment programs through an aggresslve
3111 Contacts a d focused communlcatlons program. To 35515: 1n these efforts*,
I
I
I
I
I
I
c
I
CMA 039042
CMA has develop-d an extenslve package of materlal on the hlstory of the
chemlcal 1ndusty's successes under the Clean Water Act and substantlve
materlal whlch s supportlve of our 1ndustry's proposed changes to the Act.
mvmommn
RESOURCE CONSE' ATIDN AND RECOVERY ACT PASSES aost; mm: m
SENATE
on September a, the House, by a Vote of 317 m 32, approved 3.x. 5307,
the Resource :- servatlon and Recovery Act Reauthorlzatlon. Th1: mu
authorlzed app -prlatlons for twa years and makes Significant changes 1n many
sectlons of RC. Before flnal passage, the House agreed to a substltute whlch
altered the ml orlglnally reported by the House Energy and Commerce Commlttee
and 1ncozporat- modlflcatlons advocated by the House Publlc Works and Trans*
portatlon Comml tea. The revlslons contalned 1n thls substltute solved many,
but not all, oi the problems that am 1n1tlally had mm the mm.
The House also .greed by Volce Vote to three amendments that were offered
on the floor. a flrst. offered by Mr. Flfthlan mrmm, Hill 1ncrease to en
percent the sh. e of cleaniup costs provlded by the Superfund for waste sltes
owned by 3 Sta - or munlclpallty but operated by a prlvate contractor. An
amendment by M . Rlnaldo uHm Hill 1ncrease the felony penaltles under RCRA
and an amendme by Mr. Dannemeyer (RiCAL) Hill clarlfy the ellglblllty of
courts to awar costs. By recorded Votes, the House rejected amendments by
Mr. Gramm (D’T7 to restore the Small Quantlty Generator exemptlon and by
Mr. Dannemeyer (RiCAL) to delete the sectlon whlch broadens common law pro*
Visions.
The actlon shlted m the Senate Envlronment and Publlc Works Subcommlttee
on Envlronment.l Pollutlon whlch reported a new package of RCRA amendments on
September 23. 1nce a number of lssues contalned 1n thls amendments package
are Very contr-Verslal (landflll Van, mandatory inspectlons and small generator
1ncluslon7: th- Commlttee staff spent the next couple of months attemptlng to
develop a cons-nsus on language. Under pressure to reach a consensus on these
1mportant issu-S. Senator Robert Stafford mam set the RCRA amendments Esme
untll 1933. Se ator John chases has 1nd1cated that he will make RCRA amendments
his number two prlorlty 1n 1993 and Will try to report a mm from his sub?
commlttee by t e and of March.
REGULATORY REFIRM LEGISLATION PROBABLY STALLED
Very llttle po-slblllty now exlsts that 3.x. 745, the Omnlbus Regulatory
Refom 3111, w 11 be passed 1n the closmg hours of the 97th Congress. The
busmess coall-lon whlch supports passage of thls leglslatlon had apparently
secured House eadershlp support for a compromlse that 15 close to the acceptable
language of 5. men whlch passed the Senate last sprlng. Th1: compromlse would
be presented t the House by an amendment 1n the nature of a substltute whlch
would be offer-d by Congressman Sam M. Hall (DiTxy and Congressman Tom Klndness
CMA 039043
t
I
Late breaklng npposltlon m the House Rules Commlttee to grantlng a
rule to permit floor conslderatlon of 3.x. 74a and the Hall/Klndness amendment
has all but foeclosed the possibility of passage 1n the 97th Congress.
:I
:'I
PATENT TERM RETDRATIDN BLOCKED m RULES COMMITTEE
Passage of 3.11 5444, the Patent Tenn Restoratlon Act, 15 only a dlm
possibility 1n the postielectlon sesslon of Congress. Th1: 1mportant leglslatlon would extend the term of a patent by up to 7 years for the perlod durlng
whlch commercl.l use of a product or process 15 delayed because of government
mandated testl g and revlew.
The prlnclpal mbstacle m passage of 3.x. 5444 15 obtalnlng an approprlate
rule from the ouse Commlttee on Rules to brlng thls mu up for a Vote on the
House floor.
1: 15 antlclpaed that 3.x. a444, whlch earller recelved only
4 Votes less tan the twoithlrds requlred for passage of mu: consldered on
suspenslon of he rules, would then be passed by the House. The busmess
Coalltlon and u A are seeklng a modlfled closed rule whlch would permit
conslderatlon us the mm and germane amendments on the House floor.
:I
:'I
I
The outlook 15 bleak because two powerful Rules Commlttee members
(Pepper and Bo llngy oppose the b111, as does House Speaker D'Nelll.
mmsponmnou
FILIBUSTER THR ATENS MARITIME REFORM BILL
The blggest obtacle m passage of a maritime recom mu 1n the post*
electlon 5e551m seems to be a threatened flllbuster by Senator Howard M.
Metzenbaum mam. Senator Wllllam Proxmlre miwm has 1nd1cated that he
will support a effort to prevent passage of the leglslatlon, and Senators
Max Baucus 1mm and J. James Exon mium may also reglster opposltlon.
Prevlous oppos tlon to the mm by Senator Strom Thumond misc) has been yum,
drawn. Even th-ugh there 15 only llmlted opposltlon m the shlpper/carrler
agreed upon in 1, sufflclent tune may not exlst m conslder the mm. The
Senate leaders 1p have advlsed Surface Transportatlon Subcommlttee Chalman
Slade Gorton 17sz that floor tune Will be scheduled to brlng up the measure,
but 15 15 evldnt. given the othernssues present and ltems scheduled, that
there may not a enough time for a floor Vote.
Floor actlon 1 scheduled for December 10, yet the mu could well be
carrled on the agenda for the remalnder of the sesslon. The Senate mu under
conslderatlon as been revlsed and more closely reflects the House passed Verslon.
The revlslons -re supported by cm, the shlpper/carrler coalltlon, and the
Admlnlstratlon Addltlonal CMA proposed technlcal and substantlve amendments
have also been baslcally 1ncozporated 1nto the substltute Senate Verslon.
Clarlfylng flo-r statements have further been prepared and the mu has, 1n
essenCE. been 'pre*conferenced" Hlth Members and staff of the House Merchant
Marlne and Judclary Commlttees.
m
I
I
CMA 039044
In the event t at a maritime recom mu 1: not adopted durlng the postelectlon sesslon, there 15 llttle llkellhood of a mu golng forward
1mmedlately 1n the next Congress. Consensus among Coalltlon members 15
doubtful, and he arduous draftlng process to date has left 1n questlon many of
the baslc prln 1ples 1nvolved, there 15 no doubt, however, that shlppers have
averted what w.s 1n1tlally an unbalanced carrler rellef mu. Nearly a year
of negotlatlon Hlth leglslatlve sponsors, carrler representatlves and the
Admlnlstratlon have resulted 1n substantlal agreement on the dlrectlon of
leglslatlon afectlng the v.5. maritime fleet. 1: 15 belleved by all partles
that progress as been made.
TRADE:
RECIPRDCITY LE ISLATIDN
There 15 concen 1n the Congress about the $20 bllllon trade deflclt mm
Japan and a gr-wlng concern about v.5. trade pollcy. The fallure of the GATT
Mlnlsterlal me-tlng 1n late November 1992 has caused a further deepenlng of thls
concern.
Senator John D.nforth mimm of the Senate Flnance Commlttee and Chalman
of 1:5 Intern.1onal Trade SubcommlttEE, focused Congresslonal trade pollcy
1nterest 1n " e Reclprocal Trade and Investment Act of 1992," s. 2094.
1:
provldes for p esldentlal authorlty to deal mm unfalr trade practlces, pro*
tectlon of 1nt-llectual property rlghts, and 1nequ1table 1nvestment restrlctlons
by other gove ants.
The mm was enerally acceptable to both the Senate and the House on 1::
merlts. The Senate Flnance Commlttee reported the b111, but potentlally
crlppllng ame dments threatened and the maneuverlng m ellmlnate them prevent d
a floor Vote. The mm was than added by the Senate to a Bonsaipassed
mlscellaneous tarlff b111, 3.x. 4559 (The Internatlonal Trade and 1nvestment Acm.
However. the ouse Ways and Means Commlttee dld not act on s. 2094, except to
hold hearlngs.
The chemlcal ndustry took a great deal of 1nterest 1n thls major piece of
trade leglsla lon. A number of chemlcal companles were leaders 1n an 1ndustry
Coalltlon eff-rt to get the mu passed. cm adopted a pollcy of approval of
the b111, and opposed amendments. of partlcular concern was the proposed Frenzel
amendment, H.'. 4751 (Sectlon 124 of the Trade Act of 19747, to 1nclude extenslon
of the Presld-nt's authorlty to further reduce tarlffs.
The 98th Congas: Will take up leglslatlon of thls nature. At thls tune,
1: 15 not cle.r whether 1: Will be 1n the same form as s. 2094.
In any case,
the new Congrss 15 llkely m be more protectlonlst than the last one. Th1:
poses serlous problems, partlcularly 15 the mu requlrlng all cars sold 1n
the Unlted St.tes to use up to en percent Amerlcan parts and labor, 13.1}. 51357,
contlnues 1:: current popularlty 1n the Congress.
TRADE
BILATERAL m asmENT TREATIES
The Unlted St.tes has establlshed a program of negotlatlng bllateral
CMA 039045
1nvestment tratles Hlth developmg countrles. Egypt and Panama have recently
Signed such teatles. There are twentyislx other countrles under actlve
conslderatlon by the Trade Representatlve's Offlce for future treatles. am
has been prov dad Hlth the 115: of prospectlve countrles.
The CMA Inter atlonal Trade Commlttee belleves the BIT program holds
conslderable romlse for resolvlng some of the forelgn 1nvestment problems of
the future. F-r thls reason. an actlve liaison has been establlshed between
the CMA Inves-ment Pollcy Task Group and the Trade Representatlve's Offlce.
Th1: group exacts m provlde advlce and am to the Trade Representatlve's
Offlce as add tlonal trestle: are negotlated. The 1ndustry's ability to be
effectlve 1n he 1nvestment area 1: enhanced by the membershlp of Mr. Dexter
Baker (Alr Prduct57 on Ambassador Brock's Investment Pollcy Advlsory Commlttee.
TRADE: . REPD'T 0F HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES FEDERAL PoLICy
Fomatlon of .n Admlnlstratlon pollcy on the export of hazardous sub?
stances remals actlve and close to a concluslon. on February 17, 1931,
Presldent Reaan revoked a Presldent Carter Executlve Order whlch put controls
on the export of hazardous or restrlcted products. The major stake for the
chemlcal 1ndu try was about an percent of 51.2 bllllon of exports whlch are not
reglstered 1n the Unlted States. The Presldent, at the same time, requested
from the Secrtarles of Commerce and State a proposal to 1mprove the export
notlflcatlon ystem already exlstlng 1n Varlous laws.
A jolnt propoal from Secretarles Baldrldge and Hall; was cleared by a
Trade Pollcy ommlttee chalred by Trade Representatlve Ambassador Brock.
The close ha son of the Internatlonal Trade Commlttee mm the two agencles
1n developmen of the proposal was contlnued Hlth the Visit of a small delegatlon
'm the Whlte House staff person responslble for the Whlte House course of actlon.
Subsequently, the draft proposal for a new Presldent Reagan Executlve Order was
publlshed,
1: calls for ER regulatlons and leglslatlve proposals. The draft
proposal 1: a ceptable m the chemlcal 1ndustry 1n 1:: present fom. Coni
slderable d1: laulty lles ahead due to the complexlty of the many exlstlng laws
and regulatlo s to be affected.
TRADE:
U.S./MEXICAN ETRDCHEMICAL DIchssIoNs
The v.5. Depa tment of Commerce has been fully 1nformed by CMA that petroi
chemlcal diff cultles lie ahead between the v.5. and Mexlco. Th1: will result
from a large xpanslon of petrochemlcal capaclty 1n Mexlco, Canada and Saudl
Arabla 1n the face of exlstlng, extreme overcapaclty 1n the tradltlonal prof
ducmg countres. After a dlscusslon between Presldent Reagan and Presldent
Portlllo of Mxlco, a Joint Commlsslon on Colrenerce and Trade (JCCT7 was formed
and 1ndustry lscusslons on Elva sectors, 1nclud1ng pertochemlcals, were agreed
upon.
CMA subsequen ly provlded a group of expert advlsors to the government who
are partlclpa mg 1n 3 governmenticontrolled advlsory commlttee. Th1: group 15
I
k
CMA 039045
currently wor mg on objectlves to be sought by the v.5. government 1n future
d15cusslons.lhere have been two governmentitoigovernment orlentatlon meetlngs
wlthout 1ndus ry advlsors. Further dlscusslons have delayed untll the new de
la Madrld ad nlstratlon 15 fully functlonlng.
The CMA Inte atlonal Trade Commlttee has been maintaining close liaison
mm governme t on the petrochemlcal dlscusslons. 1: has constructed 1:: set
of objectlves for the dlscusslons whlch were approved by the Executlve Commlttee
and forwards to the Department of Commerce. These objectlves Will be consldered
fully along th those of the offlclal advlsors group.
Early 1n Nova her, 1: was dlscovered that the v.5. and Mexlcan governments
had quletly -gotlated a new bllateral trade agreement. The 1ntent of the agree*
ment was to -duce Mexlcan subsldlzatlon of 1ndustrlal goods 1n return for
appllcatlon .5 the 1njury test 1n v.5. countervalllng duty actlons agalnst
Mexlcan 1mpo s. Th1: 1njury test 15 not now applled to such 1mports because
Mexlco does -t belong to the GATT and therefore, cannot Sign the GATT sub?
Sldles code. In learnlng of the trade agreement, cm unmedlately made known 1::
Vlews that t e 1ndustry was not properly consulted on the trade agreement. The
Trade Repres-ntatlve's Offlce convened a small meetlng Hlthln two days, Hlth
representatl es of several 1ndustr1es present, to dlscuss the text of the agree*
ment. on healng of thls development, the Mexlcan government wlthdrew 1::
support of t e agreement. The v.5. Department of Commerce apparently 1ntends m
submlt the areement m the 1ndustry consultatlve process and approach Mexlco
agaln, whlle the draft trade agreement had the well 1ntentloned objectlve of
reduclng Mex can subsldlzatlon, the agreement 33 wrltten clearly would not
accompllsh t 15.
um;
om upon a PMN woman EXPECTED m JANUARY
The flnal reort on DTA'S revlew of the quallty and quantlty of the mcop
matlon conta ned 1n premanufacture notlflcatlons submltted to EPA under sectlon 5
of TSCA 15 e pected to be completed early 1n 1933. am undertook thls revlew
at the reque-t of congressman Florlo (Drum. Expectatlons were that the flnal
report. depe dlng on the study results, mlght be used by Mr. Florlo 1n 3
campalgn to equlre a flxed set of testlng for all new chemlcals, slmllar to
the European-' am Amendment and 0mm: Mlnlmum Premarket Data. Prellmlnary
1nd1catlons.re, however. that DTA'S concluslons do not serlously attack EPA'S
admlnlstratl-n of the PMN Program.
TSCA:
GAD sway 0F mus UNDERWA‘I
Congressman 'lorlo recently requested another study of the PMN program,
thls one by he Government Accountlng Offlce (GAD). Th1: study will analyze
EPA'S proces- for revlewlng Pm: and maklng declslons of unreasonable rlsk; the
level of EPA s enforcement efforts and on slte inspections regardlng PMNS; and
the procedur.l and pollcy dlfferences between the v.5. and Europeans approach,
1nclud1ng te-tlng, exemptlons and follow up procedures. One part of the GAO
study 15 expcted to be done by February, mm the balance to be completed by.
the end of he summer.
CMA 039047
TSCA:
GAD sway 0N SECTION 4 TESTING COMPLETED
In the meant me, GAD has completed a study for the Senate Envlronment and
Publlc Works Commlttee on EPA'S Implementatlon of Selected Aspects of TSCA.
Th1: study fncuses on EPA'S use and legallty of negotlated/Voluntary testlng
agreements 1 lleu of formal test rules under sectlon 4 of TSCA; the asbestos
control prog am; and procedures for conductlng rlsk assessments. The GAD
study 15 due for release on December 22, 1932, and no "bombshells" are expected.
1: may be fa tored 1nto TSCA reauthorlzatlon hearlngs held 1n 1933.
I
TSCA REAUTHDIZATIDN/DVERSIGHT HEARINGS m 1993
Congressman lorlo (Drum antlclpates a comprehenslve revlew of EPA'S
1mplementat1-n of TSCA 1n reauthor12atlon hearlngs 1n the 98th Congress. No
dates have ben set, and all Subcommlttee chalmanshlps and jurlsdlctlons must
be approved arly 1n 1933. Nevertheless, Mr. Florlo 1: expected to contlnue
m chalr the Subcommlttee Hlth responslblllty for TSCA (presently Commerce and
Transportaumy. He 15 llkely to hold TSCA reauthorlzatlon and overslght hearlngs
1n the Febru-ryitoimarch tlmeframe, dependlng 1n part on his schedule for deallng
mm other 1 ortant lssues before his Subcommlttee 1nclud1ng Superfund, RCRA,
groundwater. rallroad leglslatlon and the llke. Mr. Florlo 15 531d :9 be welghlng
amendments t- TSCA and CMA 15 preparlng to counter efforts to open up a law
whlch. glven reasonable unplementatlon, 15 a Vlable and effectlve approach to
regulatlng h.zardous chemlcal substances.
In the Senat, on the other hand. some uncertalntles surround the Envlronment
and Publlc W-rks Commlttee. Senators Slade Gorton (RiwashJ (who chalred the
Toxlc Substa ass and Envlronmental Overslght Subcommlttee) and Frank Murkowskl
(RiAlaskm h-Ve chosen to leave thls Commlttee. Replaclng them Will be
Senators Goron Humphrey “Hm, and Dave Durenberger mmmm, one of who may
chalr the Suncommlttee mm jurlsdlctlon over TSCA formerly headed by Mr. Gorton.
However. the Subcommlttee jurlsdlctlons have not yet been settled, and some
rearranglng s posslble. Thus 1: 15 too early to know whether, when and by whom
TSCA reautholzatlon hearlngs Will be held 1n 1993 by the Senate.
OSHA REFORM;
I
TASK snow cnmmuma EFFORTS
A CMA Task Goup contlnues to develop recommendatlons for reform of the
Dccupatlonal Safety and Health Act. Key lssues belng developed 1nclude
deflnltlons. general duty clause, advance notlce of proposed rulemaklng, peri
fomanceﬁaas-d standards, onislte 1nspectlons, selfiregulatlon, employee com?
plalnts, taretlng safety 1nspectlons, contested altatlons, and state plans.
The recome atlons are belng revlewed by CMA'S Dccupatlonal Safety and Health
Commlttee a - are expected to be flnallzed early 1n 1933. Thereafter, am will
work Hlth t - broadibased 1ndustry coalltlon to seek amendments to the 053 Act
when the :1 - 15 deemed approprlate m achleve successful results. Expectatlons
for the 99: Congress are not encouraglng.
I
CMA 039049
STATE AFFAI'S upon
Leglslatlve ctlvlty
Leglslatlve actlvlty durlng the last few months of 1992 was generally
slow Since 05: states had adjourned before the November electlons. However
lame duck 5-sslons contlnued well 1nto December 1n Callfornla, Massachusetts,
New York an Michigan to resolve unflnlshed busmess, partlcularly related
to budget 5 ortfalls.
In addltlon, the New Jersey leglslature contlnued to
meet 1n the r regular 1992/1993 sesslon. Among 1:: other dlstlnctlons. New
Jersey Will be the only leglslature to carry mus over 1nto next year.
5y early Ja nary, the Vast majorlty of state leglslatures Will be
reorganlzed and beglnnlng the Very busy flrst year of thelr blennlum. Leglsi
latlve actl 1ty 1: expected to be extremely heavy durlng the flrst 51x months
of 1993 and will probably peak 1n Aprll.
State Elect on Results
The Novembe electlons brought much larger shlfts for the Democrats 1n
the states Ihan 1: dld 1n Congress. The Democratlc Party now has complete control of 34 state leglslatures 1n addltlon m 34 governorshlps. Further,
Democrats nw control both the leglslature and the governorshlp 1n 24 states.
The sltuatl-n 1n 1nd1v1dual states 15 as follows:
The Democra-s captured leglslatlve houses from the Republlcans 1n Delaware,
Illinols, Iwa. MalnE, Montana. omo, North Dakota. Pennsylvanla, and Washlngton.
Republlcans will control both chambers 1n Alaska. Arlzona, Colorado. Idaho:
Indlana, KB 555, New Hampshlre, South Dakota, Utah, Vemont, and Wlsconsln.
The partles will share control of both chambers 1n Montana, New York,
North Dakot-. and Pennsylvanla.
The Democra-s wrested control of the governor's offlce from the Republlcans
1n the follwlng states: Alaska, Arkansas, Mlchlgan, Mlnnesota, Nebraska, Nevada,
ohm, Texas and Wlsconsln.
The Republlans scored upset gubernatorlal Vistarles 1n Callfornla and N w
Hampshlre.
Commlttee ad Task Group Actlvlty
Major projets by the SASC and 1:5 task groups were geared toward ensurlng
that the st te affalrs professlonals 1n the 1ndustry are adequately prepared for
the onslaug t of the 1993 leglslatlve sesslons. The followlng represent major
CMA 039049
actlvltles hat are dlstlnct from partlcular lssues or mm: or regulatlons
whlch are d scussed 1n some detall subsequently.
Three reglo 31 state affalrs semlnars were held 1n New York, Atlanta and
Chlcago dur ng October and November. Total attendance was approxlmately 2mm
and 1nterac lon Hlth CIC's and other state groups was mgh. SASC task groups
developed a d presented program segments on hazardous waste, rlght to know,
hazardous m.terlals transportatlon, state cancer pollcles and alr and water
quallty.
In addltlon major corporate, EPA reglonal and state lobbylst
representatves were featured speakers. Although numerous 1deas for unprovlng
the program have developed from these sesslons, these semlnars represented
another 51:; lflcant step 1n CMA'S State Affalrs program outreach efforts.
Another seres of semlnars 15 contemplated 1n late 1933.
The Network Task Group 15 1nvolved 1n several projects deslgned to enhance the
1ndustry's -b111ty m unpact leglslatlve and regulatory actlvltles 1n speclflc
states. Flrt, the CMA State Network formed durlng 1992 15 bemg revlewed and
strengthens to ensure that key 1ndustry lssues. The exlstlng network 15 bemg
surveyed as to how partlclpants utlllzed the materlal dlstrlbuted to them 1n
1992 and w .t klnds of asslstance would be most helpful 1n 1933.
In addltlo .
a state go -rnment relatlons resource survey 1: 1n the draft stage whlch 15
deslgned :- 1dentlfy chemlcal 1ndustry lobbylng resources 1n key states and to
pinpoint 1 lvlduals and organlzatlons that can be utlllzed 1n state actlvltles
Flnally, t - task group 15 followlng and encouraglng cm development 1n states
such as Ma achusetts, Kentucky and Florlda.
The Electr- 1c Servlces Task Group completed contract dlscusslons Hlth the
Vendor for state computer based leglslatlve and regulatory tracklng servlces.
Dlscusslon contlnued through December on 1mplementatlon of the agreement.
STATE Issuns UPDATE
State Righl to Know remalns leglslatlvely actlve 1n Callfornla and New
Jersey.
In Callfor la, the 115: of covered substances (approxlmately 7007
has been 5 nallzed by the Labor Department and the worker rlght to know law
will go 1n-o effect on February 21, 1933. At the local level, communlty rlght
to know so tlnues to spread. Sacramento councll passed such an ordlnance 9,0
1n early Dcember. Other localltles that are actlve 1nclude Contra Costa, Santa
Clara. San Dlego and Orange County.
New Jersey remalns the centerplece of the debate 1n the states on rlght to
know. 51; 170. the flrst comblned state level worker and communlty rlght to
know 1n th country, was the subject of extenslve publlc hearlngs around the state
1n October These hearlngs were characterlzed by mghly emotlonal testlmony,
CMA naenan
demonstrat ons, and other medla dlrected actlvltles. The 1nst1gators of these
actlvltles were local envlronmental/cltlzen groups, and, m a lesser extent,
organlzed abor. Although 1: appeared orlglnally that commlttee markup mlght
take place 1n November or December, further actlon has been postponed untll
after the 1rst of the year.
In the 1nt-r1m, the New Jersey Chemlcal Industry
Councll an Chamber of Commerce are worklng jolntly on 1ndustry's response.
In 1933, w expect rlght to know leglslatlon to be 1ntroduced 1n Mlnnesota,
Massachusets. North Carollna. Texas, Oregon, Illlnols, Louisiana, ohm,
Indlana, F orlda and West Virginia.
The State ffalrs Speclal Commlttee Hazards Communlcatlon Task Group and
the Dccupalonal Safety and Health State Actlvltles Task Group have completed
work on th nght to Know 1nformatlon Packet. Th1: materlal has been dlstrk
buted m ky State Affalrs contacts 1n the states. The packet contalns materlal
on occupat onal cancer; exlstlng 1ndustry programs; approprlate government role;
communlty 1gb: to know; "and also contalns the rlght to know lssues analysls
booklet prpared earller thls year.
Hazardous Estes
The Hazard-us waste Dlsposal Task Group contlnued m be 1nvolved 1n several
key projec s dlrected toward 1ncreaslng the chemlcal 1ndustry's effectlveness
on hazardo 5 Haste lssues durlng 1933. They 1nclude:
The develoment of a supplement on compensatlon/llablllty lssues
for 1ncluson mm the exlstlng State Superfund Issues and
Perspectlv booklet. Th1: 15 deslgned to more fully address
strlct, jont and several liability and causatlon lssues ralsed
1n the Sec lon 301 my Federal Tort Law Study.
Completlon of the flrst stage of the state by state data gatherlng
effort on azardous waste.
Infomatlo has been assembled, by
state, on uperfund unplementatlon, siting and overall hazardous
waste manaement.
Worklng m h the EMC Hazardous Waste Support Task Group on developi
mg a mech-nlsm to provlde threat technlcal and legal support to
1ndustry r-presentatlves on state hazardous waste mus and/or
regulatlon .
Leglslatlv- actlvlty on hazardous waste durlng the last few months of 1992
was 11mm to only a few states.
The outlo- for state Superfund 1n Massachusetts remalned uncertaln as the
year ends. Although 1ndustry was dlssatlsfled Hlth the King Admlnlstratlon's
CMA 039051
revlsed p oposal, whlch was clrculatlng 1n December, the perceptlon of prob?
able legllatlon that would emerge 1n 1993 was even worse.
Michigan .nacted HE 4715 1nto law durlng November. Th1: Superfund mm
was by an large acceptable to 1ndustry although the actual source of flnanclng
1n future years 15 5:111 not clear.
Dlscusslo s have contlnued 1n New Jersey on AB 1900, whlch contalns compre*
henslve . endments m the state's splll fund. There 15 a good chance that the
tax will ova away from feedstock to some sort of waste and fee.
1: 15 llkly
that the .und Hill remaln a comblned oll/chemlcal splll fund. Actlon 15 not
llkely un-ll 1933.
Industry nroups 1n Tennessee contlnue to work on drafts of State Superfund
and sltln- mm: for conslderatlon 1n 1933.
In Callfonla. the Department of Health Servlces contlnued to push forward
1:: propo-ed regulatlons to 11m: the landfllllng of certaln categorles of
hazardous waste. The current regulatlons represent a marked unprovement over
the Execulve order orlglnally put forward by Governor Brown 1n 1931.
Alr and W.ter Quallty
A prlorlt for the State Affalrs Speclal Commlttee Envlronmental Task Group
for 1993 s the development of a pollcy paper on state regulatlon of hazardous
air polluants. The task group has begun prellmlnary work on the concepts
1nvolved .nd Will work mm the approprlate EMC groups to reach an acceptable
posltlon. Th1: actlvlty has been spurred on by the Callfornla Alr Resources
Board's a tempt to flnallze hazardous air pollutant regulatlons by the end of
1932. The Callfornla leglslature unanlmously passed a resolutlon urging them
to hold 0 c flnal actlon untll the new Admlnlstratlon took offlce.
The task roup Will also be worklng mm the EMC Groundwater Task Group
on promo: ng CMA'S new groundwater pollcy and strategy 1n the states durlng
1933.
Flnally, he task group will be monltorlng cancer and other chronlc
dlsease lsues 1n the states and Will work to ensure that the 1ndustry's
technlcal expertlse 15 made avaliable where approprlate.
Hazardous Materlals Transportatlon
CMA staff and member company representatlves partlclpated 1n a hazardous
materlals transportatlon conference 1n Denver sponsored by the Natlonal Conference
of State eglslatures. Th1: conference was part of the contlnulng dlalogue on
the approrlate roles of Federal, State and local governments 1n regulatlng the
transport-tlon of hazardous materlals.
1
CMA mans
The prln ple transportatlon lssue 1n the states contlnues m be Good
Samarlta .
Pennsylv.1a ms 50 has been reported out of conference commlttee
and 15 e acted to pass before the end of the year. Dlscusslons are contlnulng
mm the interqndustry Coalltlon on advocatlng a consensus Good Samarltan mu
1n 1933.
Progress has been good and we antlclpate a coordlnated, broad based
effort :- pass thls leglslatlon to take place 1n many states next year. To
support nus effort, the Hazardous Materlals Transportatlon Task Group 15
worklng 1th the Dlstrlbutlon Commlttee on developlng Good Samarltan advocacy
materlal- for dlstrlbutlon to our state contacts.
Flnally, the proposed Alabama regulatlon requlrlng prenotlflcatlon of
shlpment- of hazardous waste has been ellmlnated.
CMA
CMA 03903
EXHIBIT :
upon 0- THE ummmn 0F COMMUNICATIONS
RICHARD .
WILSON
Introduc-lon 7 At the Board Meetlng 1n Chlcago 1n October,
a deflnllve cm communlcatlons plan was presented.
That
plan 15 ow 1n operatlon.
A Govern ent Affalrs Task Group of the Communlcatlons Commlti
tea 1: wnrklng mm the Leglslatlve Communlcatlons Task Group
of the Givernment Relatlons Commlttee to develop a Communica*
tlons pr-gram for the local level.
Among mu prlmary goals
15 devel-pment of methods for creatlng a structure that will
help aha nel communlcatlons almed at changlng the cllmate of
publlc olnlon 1n key congresslonal dlstrlcts.
Inltlal fforts
have alrady begun to 1dentlfy lssues, develop messages and
explore ellvery approaches.
Publlc C-mpensatlon 7 Th1: major concern looms 1n the recently
convened 98th sesslon of Congress.
Because t 15 so emoi
tlonally charged, thls lssue has the potentlal to drlve the
publlc's perceptlon of the 1ndustry to new depths,
A prelk
mlnary ..11c compensatlon communlcatlons plan 15 already 1n
place.
Econom Brleflng 7 Board Chalrman Willlam G. Slmeral
appears at cum: annual economlc press brleflng, held 1n New
York (:1 y December 2, reflectlng CMA'S commltment m presentlng
key 1nd stry representatlves m the press.
Reports: were told
that th- economlc health of the 1ndustry remalns poor and that
prospecs for a rapid recovery are dim.
When th upturn does
come. M. Slmeral predlcted that the 1ndustry Will be 1n good
posltlo to take advantage of 1: through unproved productlvlty
and r15 ng expendltures for research and development.
Advertl-lng 7 The prlnt advertlslng budget for the 1992793
flscal ear was reduced from $2.2 million to $900,000 reflect?
mg 1ndstry's economlc dlfflcultles.
In llne mm other CMA
actlvlt es, the advertlslng program will become targeted and
lssue*o lented.
The prl t program will address prlorlty
lssues, such as publlc compensatlon, Superfund reauthorlzatlon,
hazardo 5 Haste dlsposal and clean water.
The Advrtlslng Task Group will work 1n tandem Hlth the new
Governmnt Affalrs Task Group toward developlng reglonal
CMA 03954
2
J
publlc elatlons programmlng supported by local advertlslng.
A prot- ype prepared for the 1992 lame duck sesslon of Congress
was ta eted at Troy, New York, and several cltles 1n West
Virgin ..
Focusl g on the Clean Water Act, the advertlsements
sought to persuade readers to support a partlcular posltlon
and to send that message m thelr congressman.
J. Waller
Thompsn 15 worklng on thls program mm cm and 1:5 outslde
publlc relatlons counsel.
Educat on 7 The department plans
:'I
1
1
m wor mm Catalyst Award
wlnner 1n developmg prlnt materlals' that emphaslze the post
tlve apects of sclence.
CMA m 1 place these artlcles Hlth
natlon 1 publlcatlons.
A p119 program usmg a top Catalyst
reclplnt as a speaker on a medla tour 15 planned for January
1933.
Anothe posslbllty 15 that radlo 1ntervlews usmg educators will be sent to statlons already requestlng our materlals
on 1nd stryirelated toplcs.
In addtlon, cm plans to publlsh
a care-r 1nformatlon booklet usmg advlsory essays from these
educat-rs.
J
Cons er Informatlon 7 The sectlon partlclpated at the Natlonal
Assoc atlon of Extenslon Home Economlsts conventlon 1n October,
dlstr butlng more than 2,000 pieces of 1nformatlon on chemlcals
and cltlcal lssues.
camm PAK awards were presented to two
natlo 31 wlnners from Kentucky and Missouri.
At :n- Natlonal Assoclatlon of Farm Broadcasters conventlon 1n
Kansa- Clty 1n November, CMA provlded ten 1ndustry representai
tives to be taped for 1ntervlews.
Elght flveﬂnlnute TV and 209
radlo tapes were made by 45 broadcasters Hlth an estlmated
llste mg audlence of 10 mllllon.
Total air tune amounted to
31 ho rs.
1
1
1
The a rst wlnners of the cnewAgra awards for broadcasts on
agrlultural toplcs were announced at the conventlon.
Flrsn
seco d and mum place wlnners recelved 31,000, 5500 and $250,
respctlvely, to donate to the noniproflt organlzatlon of thelr
chole.
1
1
1
c
Pubic Servlce Announcements 7 The department will produce four
3Dis-cond PSAS for televlslon durlng the next few months.
They
Hll reflect actlons that the 1ndustry 15 taklng 1n the publlc
1ntrest on major lssues.
9
Pub leatlons 7 CMA News plans a yeariend report that Hill sunk
mar 1e major leglslatlve and regulatory actlvlty of the year
and provlde an outlook on congresslonal actlon to come.
Con 17
nul g 1:: speclal report serles, ChemEcology's December/January
155 a will focus on the posltlve manner 1n whlch the 1ndustry
remanded to the lelngston, La., traln derallment.
In conjunctlon mm the technlcal department, thls sectlon 15
cordlnatlng productlon of a primer on ground water.
1: Will be
aV-llable early 1n 1933, prlmarlly to 5111 requests for 1nformai
tl-n generated by medla tours.
c
1
1
A
A naenaa
AGENDA
MEETING .17 THE cm 13mm: OF DIRECTORS
The Gree brler. Elsenhower a Room
Whlte Suphur Sprlngs, West Virginia
TAB
Call to Irder and Approval of Mlnutes of Aprll 3, 1934,
Meetlng .. Chalman Fernandez
Treasure '5 Report G. c. Herman
Report 0 Executlve Commlttee Chalrman Holmer
Speclal ’rogram Advlsory Commlttee Appolntmentts) L. Fernandez
Report 0 the Presldent W R. A. Roland
a. Cresos Program
b. Nlcke*contalnlngcatalysts Program
a. oleyl-mne Program
3
4
Publlc C-mpensatlon Task Group Report Jackson B. Brownlng,
vmon Ca blde Cozporatlon
5
1
2
Superfun Status Report:
a. Leglslatlve Update w. M. Stover
b. Fundl g Task Group Thomas G. Slngley, Shellchemlcal Company
c. Econo 1:: Impact Task Group Hugh R. Irvlne, Exxon Chemlcal
Amerlcas
Status R-port on Clean Sltes, Inc. L. Fernandez
Report 0 the Vice Presldents:
b. Dlrec or of Conraunlcatlons J. c. Holtzman
c. Dlrec or of Government Relatlons w. M. Stover
New Busl e55
Adjourn -nt
5
7
3
9
10
11
12
A brlef -rganlzatlonal meetlng of the 1994795 Board of Dlrectors Will
be held medlately followlng the Annual Busmess Meetlng on Thursday,
June 7, |984, 1n the Elsenhower a Room.
Next Re lar Dlrectors' Meetlng: Monday & Tuesday, September 17719, 1934.
Drlentaton Meetlng for New Dlrectors: Sunday, September 15, 1994 (3:004:00 p.m.7.
Lodge at Pebble Beach, Pebble Beach, Callfornla.
am 03915
2247
MINUTES .5 the twoihundred nlnetyielghth meetlng of the Board of Dlrectors
of the emlcal Manufacturers Assoclatlon, Inc., held at The Greenbrler
(Elsenh- er a Room. Whlte Sulphur Sprlng, West Virginia, Wednesday, June a,
1934.
Dlrecto :
Louls Fe nandez. Chalrman
Rlchard .Askew
Max 5. '.55
Alan Belzer
Robert -. Cadleux
Paul w. hellgren
Harry :- less
Ralph s. Cunnlngham
Kenneth , . Davls
Carl R. ckardt
John T. ‘ lles
Joseph -. Flannery
Robert -. Forney
Paul F. offman
Edwln c. Holmer
John w. ohnstonE, Jr.
Robert -. Kennedy
Chalrma
Sldney . Leahy
John 5. Ludlngton
Robert .Mltchell
Fred w. ‘ ontanarl
c. Robe Powell
Toy F.'e1d
Thomas a. Rellly, Jr.
Robert . Roland
Davld L. Rooks
M. Whlton Sadler
Vlncent . Sarnl
James F. Schorr
Harold . Sorgentl
Charles . Stewart
5. Jay tewart
William G. West
Secretay:
Treasurr:
General Counsel:
Charles . Van Vlack
Gary c. Herman
Davld F. 5°11
By Invl-atlon:
Stuart ._ Allen, socMA, E. 1. du Pont de Nemours & Company
Davld L. Balrd, Jr., Exxon Chemlcal Company
Geraldl e v. Cox, CMA
Robert . Flelds, ma Cozporatlon
Thomas . Hellman. Allled Cozporatlon
Robert .. 3111, CMA
Jon c. oltzman. cm
Hugh R. Irvlne, Exxon Chemlcal Amerlcas
Vlctor . Peterson. CMA
James a. Sanger, Monsanto Company
William M. stover. cm
Jullane a. Van Egmond, Amerlcan Cyanamld Company
Glenn w, Whats, The Dow Chemlcal Company
The mee-lng was called to order by Chalman Fernandez.
MINUTES OF THE LAST MEETING
The mm has of the Aprll 3, 1934, meetlng were approved as dlstrlbuted.
cm nae 4a
2249
TREASU'R'R'S REPORT
Mr. Heran reported that the yeariend report showlng actual revenue and
expense- Versus budget for the 1993/94 flscal year 15 bemg flnallzed and should
be dlstlbuted by the end of June. Pendlng that flnal report, current estlmates
1nd1cat the use of reserves 1n the amount of approxlmately $100,000. Mr.
Herman sported that invoices for 1994/95 Assoclatlon dues are belng mallet!
and ma. prompt payment would be appreclated.
REPORT .17 THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Mr. Holer deferred a separate report of the Executlve Commlttee's meetlng
Since e.ch of the ltems addressed were also to be covered by the Board at 1:5
meetlng
SPECIAL woman ADVISORY COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Dr. Fer andez announced the appolntment of Harry Corless of 1:1 Amerlcas,
Inc. an- Rlchard G. Askew of Phillips Chemlcal Company to the Speclal Programs
Advlsor Commlttee 15mm. The Executlve Commlttee and Board had prevlously ap*
proved me reorganlzatlon of SPAC and authorlzed the appolntment of two members
of the 'oard of Dlrectors to serve mm three cm Vice Presldents (Technlcal,
Legal. .nd Admlnlstratlom on the commlttee.
REPORT IF THE mmsnmm
a
Mr. Rol.nd reported that there had been a net 1ncrease of elght
members durlng the 1993/94 flscal year.
Mr. Rol.nd 1nd1cated that the lssues of groundwater and emergency
respons- preparedness were recelvlng 1ncreased attentlon and that
a press tatlon to the Board and Executlve Commlttee on Assoclatlon
actlvlt es and proactlve programs 1n these areas 15 antlclpated 1n
the has future.
Mr. Rol.nd presented proposed speclal programs on eresols, nlckelcontalnlng catalysts and oleylamme.
0N MDTIIN, duly made and seconded,
1: was
VOTED: o approve the proposed programs
on eresmls, nlckelicontalnlng catalysts
and ole lamlne as set forth 1n Exhlblt A.
swmzm- STATUS REPORT
Mr. 5m er's report, on behalf of Mr. Mobley, 15 attached as Exhlblt B.
In addllon, he hlghllghted:
1
cm nae 47
2249
a
May 15 Iestlmony by Mr. Holmer on behalf of cm before the Senate
Envlron ental and Publlc works Commlttee at whlch Mr. Sorgentl also
testlfld.
e
Plans fr 3 cm V151: program mm elghteen targeted members of the
Senate.
a
Actlvlt es 1n the House Energy and Commerce Commlttee, 1nclud1ng
the mar *up of the Florlo H mm expected 1n the latter half of
June.
e
Other ause commlttees Hlth jurlsdlctlon over the Superfund mm
and propects for thelr actlons.
e
Need to Board members to 1n1tlate Visits Hlth members of the Senate
and the House Commerce Commlttee to educate them on the Superfund
lssues us crltlcal concern to the chemlcal 1ndustry.
There fullowed dlscusslon of the Assoclatlon's role 1n the reauthorlzatlon
process and the need to reemphaslze our posltlons on the crltlcal lssues of
fund 51 e; publlc compensatlon; the sources of fund revenues; and the timing
of reauhorlzatlon. There was addltlonal dlscusslon emphaslzlng the need for
sound d.ta from EFA on the resources requlred 1n the extended Superfund program
before eauthorlzatlon should proceed and that thls polnt should be strongly
made. p.rt1cularly 1n the Senate.
swam)“ FUNDING upon
Mr. wm e's report 15 attached as Exhlblt c.
1ncludew:
nghllg ts from his remarks
e
Detalls of the prevlously approved "safety Valve" borrowlng authorlty
whlch w-uld make avaliable addltlonal funds to flnance actual Superfund
slte clanup.
e
Inablll y of the task group to recommend any other taxlng optlons,
includl g gross recelpts, as acceptable alternatlves.
e
Need to advocate the tax and economlc unpact lssues to members of the
ways an Means and Flnance Commlttees.
e
Necessl y of utlllzlng general revenues to close any revenue gap ha?
tween t e approved Assoclatlon posltlon and the amounts bemg dlscussed
by the ongress.
0N Momm, duly made and seconded,
1: was
VOTED: hat the followlng provlslons be
to the ssoclatlon's prevlously approved
tlon on the use of borrowlng to 5111 any
gap bet sen the amount of the fund to be
added
post
fundlng
flnance
cm nae 4a
2250
by 1ndutry taxes, general revenues, cost re*
coverle and 1nterest; and the total amount
requlre for cleanup actlvltles 1n any given
year:
a
Expands borrowlng authorlty should be consldered
a "safe y valve", that 15, the authorlty to borrow
would b avaliable only to flnance actual Superfund
slte clanup expenses after the revenues 1n the
trust 5 nd have been expanded.
e
Expands borrowlng authorlty would be llmlted 1n any
glven yar m approxlmately 5350 mllllon.
e
Repayme t of amounts borrowed should be amortlzed
over a Diyear perlod. Installment: of prlnclpal
and 1ntrest should be paid flrst from cost re*
coverle and then, to the extent needed, from trust
fund re enues.
The :35 group will give further conslderatlon m the nonhazardous waste
dlsposa tax submltted by Mr. Belzer of Allled.
There w-s addltlonal dlscusslon on the appllcablllty of the "Greenbrler
Procedu as" to the advocacy of a gross recelpts or other taxlng formula. 1:
was agred that the "Greenbrler Procedures" were not appllcable 1n thls case.
ECDNDMI IMPACT upon
Mr. Irvne's report 15 attached as Exhibit D. He 1nd1cated that the
econom 1mpact data belng developed Will be adapted to 1nd1v1dual states and
congreslonal dlstrlcts for use 1n the Assoclatlon's lobbylng effort.
PUBLIC ommsnmu
Mr. Bro nlng's report 15 attached as Exhibit E. In Mr. Brownlng's absence,
Mr. 801 er reported on the Executlve Commlttee": dlscusslons and actlons Hlth
respect to publlc compensatlon. He relterated that keeplng publlc compensatlon
provlslnns out of the Superfund reauthorlzatlon mm was a priority. Although
th adml lstratlve compensatlon fund was deleted 1n the current Florlo II
Superfu d proposal, a federal cause of actlon provlslon 5:111 remalns whlch 15
also unupportable. The Executlve Commlttee agreed that:
a
An adml lstratlve compensatlon fund and/or federal cause of actlon
contlnu- m be opposed 1n the context of Superfund reauthorlzatlon.
e
Further 1nformatlon and analysls was requlred Hlth respect to the
potent1.l unpact of a federal cause of actlon.
e
The rec-mmendatlon contalned 1n the task group's report to amend
CERCLA ectlon 104117 to provlde for more slte speclflc health
studles and medlcal monltorlng be approved.
1
2251
followl g Mr. Holmer's remarks, there was dlscusslon of uh n the mum?
report -n waste slte injuries would be released. Dr. Cox reported that as a
result .5 the peer revlew process, a flnal report would not be lssued untll
Septemb-r.
0N MDTIN. duly made and seconded,
1: was
VOTED: hat the recommendatlon contalned 1n
the :35 group's report to amend CERCLA Sec*
tlon 10m to provlde for more slte speclflc
health tudles and medlcal monltorlng be ap*
proved .
CLEAN SITEs, me. upon
Chalrma Fernandez presented a report on the status of the Clean Sltes, Inc.
project. He expressed his appreclatlon m the Assoclatlon's Executlve Commlttee
and Boa d; 1nd1v1dual assoclatlon and member company partlclpants uncludlng Messrs.
Holmer. Forney, Roland, and Mcsrayery; the Conservatlon Foundatlon and other par
tlclpat ng envlronmental groups; and Admlnlstrator Ruckleshaus and others at EFA.
Chalrm. Fernandez 1nd1cated that there remalned much to accompllsh before the
project can be deemed a success, 1nclud1ng engaglng staff, securlng the requlred
start . fundlng from the chemlcal and other 1ndustr1es and actually gettlng the
cleanu under way. He urged the cooperatlon of Assoclatlon's members 1n worklng
togethe m accompllsh the purposes of the Clean Sltes project.
REPORTS OF THE VICE mmsnmms
5. Tea leal Dlrector.
Dr. Co '5 report 15 attached as Exhlblt F.
She m llghted several projects currently under way, 1nclud1ng development of
an ova .11 groundwater strategy and the Keystone Foundatlon project on publlc
compens.tlon.
b. Dlrector of Communlcatlons.
Mr. 801 zman's report 15 attached as
Exhlblt G. He referenced a new communlcatlons packet for use 1n medla Visits
on Superfund. He sollclted Board members and other senlor management from mem*
bar co panles m partlclpate 1n thls program.
a. Dlrector of Government Relatlons.
as Exhl-lt a.
Mr. St-Ver's report 15 attached
d. Gen-ral Counsel.
Mr. 5011': report 15 attached as Exhibit 1. He
also r-oorted that legal research on Varlous lssues related to natural resource
damage clalms would soon be avaliable to CMA members.
on motlon. duly made
Charla H. Van Vlack
Corpor.te Secretary
am 03150
EXHIBI A
PRoPosn- PROGRAM 0N CRESDLS
Proble /Background;
The En 1ronmental Protectlon Agency has
propos-d that the cresol 1ndustry test
Varlou cresols for potentlal health effects.
Cresol manufacturers asked CMA to set up a
progr. on these chemlcals. Accordlngly, the
Specla Programs Dlvlslon convened an explori
story eetlng where a tentatlve budget to
cover he 1n1tlatlon phase of the program was
approV-d.
Obj at was;
The Pr-gram Panel will work mm EPA to develop
a reas-nable and sufflclent testlng program.
The P3 el 1ntends to evaluate the Agency's
propos-d testlng requlrements 1n conjunctlon
Hlth adltlonal data 1n order to develop a
reason.ble testlng program.
Recomm-ndatlon:
1: 15 roposed that the Executlve Commlttee
accept SPAC'S recommendatlon for approval for
thls pogram.
Impact;
Money
Partlc patlng companles will support program
actlvl-les and necessary overhead.
Compan Personnel
One reresentatlve from each partlclpatlng
compan .
cm Pesonnel
No add tlonal staff requlred.
Actlon Requlred:
Approv.l of recommendatlon.
am
am 03.151
CRESDL woman
Propos-d Charter
The Prgram Panel will be concerned Hlth the collectlon
and ev.luatlon of 1nfomatlon necessary to assess the envlronmental and health effects arising out of the productlon, storage,
transprtatlon, use and dlsposal of cresols.
1
The P3 el will adopt and convey advocacy posltlons, as
approp-late, emanatlng from regulatory agency actlvltles on
cresolu
The P3 el Will be responslble for certaln admlnlstratlve
matter', 1nclud1ng the electlon of offlcers, Votlng procedures,
basls or cost sharlng among partlclpatlng companles, deslgnatlon
of appoprlate task and/or work groups, and liaison Hlth other
trade .ssoclatlons and 1nterested nonipartlclpatlng partles.
:I
The P3 el Hill functlon as a speclal commlttee under
CMA'S ylaws, and 1:5 operatlon Will be subject to the Speclal
Progr. s Guldellnes.
s
am
am 03152
Cresol- Program
Roster
Mr. J1 Nails
Ferro lorporatlon
Produc-ol Dlvlslon
Washlnton, v_c.
20014
Mr. Ke Wllklnson
Sherwl *Wllllams Company
Chemlc 15 Dlvlslon
501 Mury Road
Clncln atl. on 45217
Mr. Jo Male
Genera Electrlc
Noryl Venue
Selklr , Ny 12159
Mr. Yo-hlnorl Takashlma
Sumlto o Chemlcals Amerlca
345 Pa k Avenue
New Yo k, Ny 10154
Mr. To Burgunder
Kopper Company, Inc.
7th 2 .rant Streets
Plttsbrgh, PA 15219
Mr. B1 1 Hogan
Synthe 1c Chemlcal
50 E35 Bellevue Place
Sulte -7n2
Chlcagu, IL 50511
Mr. K1 by Boston
Merlchm Company
4300 Txas Commerce Tower
Housto , TX 7700273053
Mr. F. Yamaguchl
Mitsul Petrochemlcal, Ind.
200 Pa k Avenue
New Yo k, Ny 10155
Counse
Mr. Ch-rles A. O'Connor“ III
McKenn” Conner & Cuneo
1575 Be Street. NW
Washlnton, v_c.
20005
Mr. Ve non Blue
North -st Petrochemlcal Corp.
Anaco e5, WA 99221
am
am 03.153
PRoPos u PROGRAM 0N NICKELiCDNTAINING CATALYSTS...
Probl- /Background;
In or-r to respond to potentlal regulatory
actlv 1e: Hlthln Varlous government agencles,
manuf. turers of nlckelicontalnlng catalysts
reque ed that am establlsh an advocacy pro*
gram. ccordlngly, the Speclal Programs
Dlvls on convened an exploratory meetlng whlch
resul ed 1n 3 declslon to fom a Panel. A
propoed onsiyear budget was approved.
Dbjec-lves:
The P.nel will represent the 1nterests of
make *contalnlng catalysts producers,
adopt ng and conveymg advocacy posltlons,
as aproprlate.
In orer to support 1::
p951: ons, the Panel will collect 1nformatlon
neces-ary to assess safety, envlronmental and
heal: lssues.
Recom endatlons;
1: 15 proposed that the Executlve Commlttee
accep- SPAC'S recommendatlon for approval of
thls rogram.
Impaci
Money
Partllpatlng companles will support pro*
gram.ct1v1t1es and necessary overhead.
Comps y Personnel
One rpresentatlve from each partlclpatlng
compay.
cm Prsonnel
No adltlonal staff requlred.
Actlo Requlred;
Approal of recommendatlon.
am
am 09154
mam: *CDNTAINING CATALYSTS woman
Propoed Charter
The p ogram Panel will be concerned Hlth the collectlon
and e aluatlon of 1nfomatlon necessary to assess safety, envlroni
manta and health lssues arising out of the productlon, storage,
transortatlon. use and dlsposal of nlckelicontalnlng catalysts.
The P.nel will undertake research projects as approprlate.
The P.nel will adopt and convey advocacy posltlons,
as aproprlate, emanatlng from regulatory agency actlvltles on
make *contalnlng catalysts.
The P.nel Will be responslble for certaln admlnlstratlve
matte s, 1nclud1ng the electlon of offlcers, Votlng procedures,
basls for cost sharlng among partlclpatlng companles, deslgnatlon
of aproprlate task and/or worklng groups, and liaison mm other
trade assoclatlons and 1nterested nonipartlclpatlng partles.
The P-nel Hill functlon as a speclal commlttee under
CMA'S bylaws. and 1:5 operatlon Will be subject to the Speclal
Progr. s Guldellnes.
1
am
am 09155
mam: *CDNTAINING CATALYSTS PRDGFAM
Roste
Rlcha d Kraska
Amerl an Cyanamld
One anamld Plaza
Wayn, NJ D7470
John Gordon
1:1 grlcultural Dlvlslon
13111 ngham, Cleveland
Byro Mlller
Akzo Chemle Amerlca
1300 Bay Park
Pasaena. TX 77507
Davl M. Ferguson, 1mm.
1:1 merlcas, Inc.
Conc-rd Plke & New Murphy Roads
Wllm ngton, DE 19997
Danll Woods
(:31: cat Dlvlslon
Mallnckrodt. Inc.
1707 Gaskell Avenue
Erle PA 15503
Kel ‘ Farmery
Kat.lco Corporatlon
290 Butterfleld Road
Oak 'rook, IL 50521
Jim Embree
Che ron Envlronmental
Bea th Center
RM: and, CA 94904
ma Garner
Earhaw/Flltrol
194 E. 97th Street
(11- eland. DE 44105
5: art Cagen
Sh 11 Development
Boston. TX 77001
c. Bert Knlght
u ted Catalysts Inc.
L-ulsvllle. .K‘I 40232
organ E. Jarvan
aldor Topsoe, Inc.
1 Bayport Boulevard
Pasaden x 77507
CMA
CMA 039155
pnoposm woman on o AMINE
Problem/Background:
on November 9, 1933, the Intera Testlng
Commlttee 1mm recommended that ole 1ne
be consldered for testlng for 1:: toxlc
effects on human health. The ITC recommended
the followlng studles:
toxlcoklnetlcs, genotoxlclty and teratogenlclty.
In response to
the ITC'S recommendatlon. EPA proposed oral
teratogenlclty, dermal subchronlc, and mutai
genlclty tests. A5 a result of EPA'S proposal,
oleylamlne manufacturers asked CMA to set up
a program on thls chemlcal. Accordlngly, the
Speclal Programs Dlvlslon convened,an explorai
tory meetlng to dlscuss testlng lssues and
optlons for actlon.
Dbjectlves;
The Panel will work Hlth EPA to develop a
reasonable and sufflclent response to the
ITC'S recommendatlons for testlng. The
Panel 1ntends to evaluate the Agency's
testlng recommendatlon 1n conjunctlon mm
addltlonal data 1n order m determlne the
need for a testlng proposal.
Recommendatlon;
1: 15 proposed that the Executlve Commlttee
accept SPAC'S recommendatlon for approval
for thls program.
Impact;
Money
Partlclpatlng companles will support
program actlvltles and necessary overhead.
Company Personnel
One representatlve from each partlclpatlng
company.
CMA Personnel
No addltlonal staff requlred.
Approval of recommendatlon.
CMA
CMA 039157
T
DLEYLAMIN'E woman
Proposed.Charter
The partlclpatlng companles Will work mm EPA to
develop a reasonable and sufflclent response to the Interagency
Testlng Commlttee's recommendatlons for testlng of oleylamne.
The Panel will revlew and evaluate publlshed and
unpubllshed llterature on health effects. and Hill deslgn, con*
duct and monltor a testlng program, 15 approprlate.
The Panel will adopt and convey advocacy posltlons
to other agencles on oleylamlne, as needed.
The Panel will be responslble for certaln admlnlsi
tratlve matters. 1nclud1ng the electlon of offlcers, detemlnai
tlon of the basls for sharlng the costs of the program among
partlclpatlng companles, deslgnatlon of approprlate task and/or
worklng groups, and liaison Hlth 1nterested nonipartlclpatlng
partles.
1
Conslstent Hlth cm practlces and pollcles, the Panel
will 1nteract mm federal agencles 1n all matters relatlng to
safety and health lssues concernlng oleylamlne. The Panel will
functlon as a speclal commlttee under CMA'S bylaws, and 1::
Op ratlon Will be subject to the Speclal Programs Guldellnes.
4
CMA
I
CMA 039159
Dleylamlnes Program
Roster
Mr. Howard chkman
Sherex Chemlcal Company
Dublln, DE 43017
Dr. Glen Llchtenwalter
Jetco Chemlcals
Corslncana, TX 75110
Mr. Llncoln Metcalfe m
Akzo Chemle Amerlca
9401 w. 47th Street
McCook. IL 50525
CMA
CMA 039159
EXHIBIT 9
sumnmmu STATUS upon
LEGISLATIVE UPDATE,
By Stacey Mobley, E. 1. du Pont de Nemours a Company
caucus:
HOUSE
Representatlve James Florlo's mimy Subcommlttee on
Commerce, Transportatlon and Tourlsm Hill markup his new
Superfund b111, 3.x. 5540, on May 23.
1: 1: expected that the
Subcommlttee will report 3.x. 5540 m the full commlttee.
Representatlve John mngen ”Hm, Chalman of the full
Energy and Commerce Commlttee, who 15 a co*sponsor of Florlo's
b111, 1: expected to begln conslderatlon of Superfund after
the Memorlal Day recess.
a
Speaker of the House of Representatlves "mp" D'Nelll
has asked the three House commltteeS (Energy and
Commerce, Publlc Works and Transportatlon and Ways and
Meansy to complete work and have Superfund ready for
floor conslderatlon 1n early August. D'Nelll wants
to make Superfund a Presldentlal electlon lssue agalnst
Presldent Reagan and the Republlcans.
e
Representatlve Robert Ros ”Hm. Chalman of the
Water Resources SubcomlttEE, Publlc Works and
Transportatlon Commlttee, has begun Superfund reauthori
lzatlon hearlngs. Roe, who 15 a co*sponsor of the
Florlo mu will complete his hearlngs 1n early June.
CMA Hill testlfy at the June hearlngs.
The Ways and Means Commlttee Will not begln Superfund
hearlngs, untll mldiJune on the taxlng aspects of the
Florlo mu.
SENATE
CMA testlfled before the Senate Envlronment and Publlc
Works Commlttee on May 15. Addltlonal hearlngs were held
May 23 and 24. The major Senate Superfund mu Will not be
1ntroduced untll after these leglslatlve hearlngs are completed.
MEDIA
The medla contlnues to not Hrlte much about Superfund, 1n
general, but Senator Gary Hart 15 beglnnlng to address the lssue
of Superfund on a natlonal basls.
CMA 039150
ASSOCIATIONS
CMA contlnues to hold regular meetlngs Hlth other
1ndustry groups whlch are unpasted by the Superfund
leglslatlon. Most other assoclatlons are worklng to
get exempted from the feedstock or waste*end tax.
They are concerned about the llablllty and compensai
tlon provlslons.
CMA
CMA has 1n1tlated an aggresslve lobbylng campalgn 1n
Washlngton and Congresslonal Distrlcts almed prlmarlly
at the members of Florlo's SubcommlttEE, the Energy
and Commerce CommlttEE, the Ways and Means Commlttee
and the Senate Envlronment and Publlc Works Commlttee.
We have also undertaken contacts mm key members and
staff of the House Publlc Works and Transportatlon
Commlttee.
ENVIRONMENTALISTS
The envlronmentallsts contlnue to lobby Very aggresslvely
1n the House and Senate for a Very large 1ncrease 1n
the Superfund and for "Vlctlm's compensatlon".
MINISTRATIDN
EPA Admlnlstrator Ruckelshaus contlnues to advocate
that Superfund leglslatlon should not be consldered
thls year untll the Agency completes 1:: study of
fundlng needs 1n December 1934.
CMA
exhibit a
swmmmo munmc REPORT
Pr«s#nted by
Glann w. Whlte. The Dow Chemlcal Company
June 6, 1994
I am reportlng today on behalf of the Superfund Fundlng
Task Group 1n respect of 1:: charge to study further the ARCS
gross recelpts tax proposal.
The Task Group after due
conslderatlon agaln rejected that tax proposal.
Prevlously
the Tax Pollcy Commlttee had also rejected the proposal.
Before the Executlve Commlttee and Board of CMA at thls
tune 15 a modlflcatlon m the exlstlng posltlon on Superfund
fundlng.
Speclflcally/ cm would modlfy 1:5 exlstlng posltlon
m 1nclude support for:
The use of borrowlng as a "safety Valve" to support
actual slte cleaniup after the trust fund revenues
had been exhausted.
Borrowlng/ 1n any one year, would be llmlted to
$350 mllllon/ and
Repayment of any borrowlngs should be amortlzed
over a lniyear perlod.
Installment: of prlnclpal
and 1nterest should be paid flrst from cost recoverles
and then. m the extent needed, from the trust fund.
Th1: proposal tlghtly 11mm: fundlng as does CMA'S present
posltlon.
Earller/ Mr. Holmer had testlfled on reauthorlzatlon
1n the Senate and ms testlmony reflected an 5950 mllllon total
annual fundlng.
I recommend for your approval the Task Group's proposal.
I would llke to further suggest that am get busy and
address the issue before the tax writing commlttees of Congress.
Leglslatlon will soon come out of the Congresslonal commlttees
concerned mm envlronmental lssues and pass to the commlttees
CMA 039152
T
concerned mm raising revenues.
Whlle we can support the
CMA posltlon, I am convlnced that we must address a more
1
serlous longitem issue.
The chemlcal 1ndustry faces a major problem, a problem so
severe 1: shakes CMA and many of the companles.
obvlous confllcts of Vlew that are serlous.
There are
They are serlous
because each tax proposal can have a major adverse unpact on
:I
:'I
some of the companles Hlthln the 1ndustry.
Our argument can be that thls 1ndustry supports reauthorlzatl'on at the seam mllllon level Hlth a llmlted annual
borrowlng authorlzatlon.
However. thls 1ndustry does not have
the r Venue capaclty to fund the major socletal cost of a
new welfare program.
:'I
J
I
No onE, especlally our leglslators, should
be allowed to lose slght of the fact that a complete cleanup
of all hazardous waste sltes 1n the Unlted States 15 another
w lfare program.
And that becomes partlcularly true 15 the
Vlctlm compensatlon leglslatlon 15 marrled to thls program.
t
We must make the cogent economc arguments and make them
1n terms that are both bellevable and reallstlc.
Even at a
51.5 bllllon annual fundlng level, the chemlcal 1ndustry does
not collapse.
However. the real effect when the tax becomes
centered on a Very narrow revenue base, of give or take seven
chemlcals and give or take 12 companles, 15 that an eroslon
beglns that moves productlon of the partlcular chemlcals off?
shore.
Eroslon may be more pernlclous than collapse.
That
CMA 039153
eroslon will soon begln, because for most of the affected
chemlcals there 15 worldwlde excess capaclty.
From the point*
ofivlew of the chemlcal companles, the fact that the productlon
may move from Unlted States sources to forelgn sources may be
good news or bad news dependlng upon the 1nd1v1dual company's
worldwlde capaclty sltuatlon and worldwlde market posltlon.
From a Unlted States government Viewpoint, any movement of
productlon out of the Unlted States defeats the revenue
raising capablllty of the tax, thus the tax Simply won't work
as 1:: rate goes up.
revenue base.
Th1: tax commlts sulclde by kllllng 1::
Moreover. 1:5 eroslve effect dlmlnlshes the
general 1ncome tax base as well.
The staffs of the commlttees
responslble for raising revenues can be made to understand
thls argument.
However. we must artlculate 1: carefully and
wlthout overstatement. because overstatement Will be followed
by complete dlsbellef and we cannot afford that consequence.
We can make a strong, posltlve argument for a waste*end
tax based on 1:: equlty and falrness.
Equlty 1n that 1:
compels people to do what they ought to do, that 15, 51mply
dlspose of thelr waste 1n an envlronmentally safe fashlon.
Falrness 1n that all those who dlspose of waste pay a reason*
able amount of tax.
Whlle we as an 1ndustry can fund most of a reasonable
program. we cannot fund grandlose schemes.
Such schemes must
be consldered 1n the great revenue debates that will occur
beglnnlng 1n 1994 and carry on 1nto a new Congress and Admlnlsi
tratlon.
We must convey thls message 1n Washlngton.
CMAD38164
T
*4Gentlemen, 1: 15 tune to qult feedlng maldens m the
dragon and 1nstead go 61nd us some good St. George*type
defenders.
I do not merely advocate that we try harder but
1nstead that we try smarter.
J
Let's moblllze the resources of
the 1ndustry to canvass Capltol 3111 1n 3 jolnt 1ndustry
effort to destroy thls theory that one 1ndustry can cure a
Vast socletal problem.
I speclflcally recommend that we put
together twaiperson teams that would 1nclude one person Huh
:I
governmentalilobbylng experlence and one person mm a tax*
economlc background to lobby the staff and members of the Ways
I
and Means Commlttee and Flnance CommlttEE, carrylng the message
I
I have outllned above.
I
1 speclflcally recommend that we traln
these people mm the message that we want conveyed to the 3111
and that we dedlcate the numbers of people needed to do a
thorough, competent job.
If we are defeated on thls lssue
1: must not be because any staff or congresslonal member can
I
:'I
legltlmately say no one from 1ndustry told mm there was a
problem.
I have already dlscussed thls matter generally Hlth
the CMA Government Relatlon Commlttee leaders.
Now. I know
there are some who belleve the deal has already been cut by
the Democractlc majorlty 1n the House and that the Senate
will offer no effectlve reslstance m that deal.
If thls 15
so, then nothlng we do whatever course we declde to follow,
will make any dlfference.
Rather than assume we are defeated.
I would prefer to see us proceed mm an actlvltlst campalgn.
R member. 15 you are golng to get your throat 511: 1: makes
v ry llttle dlfference 15 they draw the knlfe rlght to left
or left to rlght.
Th1: 1ndustry cannot hear the unpact of
CMA 039155
5
*Sever growlng frontiend, waste*end or other tax mechanlsms.
1: must convey the message that 1: will support a reasonable
reauthorlzatlon of Superfund; but that 1: Hill reslst, 1n the
strongest fashlon, the broad expanslon of that leglslatlon.
We must tell the story 1n an honest, responslble and threat
fashlon.
If that should 1nclude a masslve grass roots effort,
then let's get at 1:.
then let's be stronger.
If 1: means a stronger lobbylng effort,
Whatever 1: takes, let's get on Hlth
the busmess of protectlng thls 1ndustry.
CMA
CMA 039155
Exhibit (:71
Alternate Sources of Superfund Revenue
Dlscusslon
In Aprll, the Executlve Commlttee and Board of Dlrectors approved the
recommendatlon of the Superfund Fundlng Taste Group for supplemental revenue
optlons for the Superfund slte cleanup program. In brlef, the recommendatlons
adopted were:
0
To mpose a tax of $50 per dry welght ton on the dlsposal of
hazardous waste to produce the flrst sann mllllon 1n tax revenues
for the Superfund slte cleanup program.
0
To ralse revenues over $300 million: malntaln the exlstlng feedstock
taxes mm three prlnclpal amendments 157 adoptlon of technlcal
amendments package; (by speclflcally exempt hydrocarbons used 1n
gasollne from separate taxatlon as chemlcals; 1C7 freeze level of
revenues to be ralsed from the current taxes at approxlmately
$300 million per annum.
0
To contlnue fundlng from government general revenues at 12.5 percent,
or approxlmately sea mllllon per annum.
0
To provlde EPA borrowlng authorlty of up to $300 million per annum
(Task Group to develop detallsy.
The Executlve Commlttee and Board of Dlrectors dlrected the Task Group to
study further an ARCS proposal to tax certaln corporate gross recelpts.
on May 15, Edwln c. Holmer testlfled on behalf of CMA before the Senate
Commlttee on Envlronment and Publlc Works on Superfund reauthorlzatlon.
In that testlmony, Mr. Holmer presented a proposed fundlng mechanlsm to
match annual EPA spendlng needs of approxlmately $950 million. That
proposal 1ncludes the components dlscussed above, and would ralse 57m
mllllon. In addltlon. he noted that $150 million would be provlded from
cost recoverles and 1nterest for total Superfund revenues of $950 million.
In response to the dlrectlve of the Executlve Commlttee, the Task Group
met on May 19, 1934, m determlne what 15 the preferred mechanlsm to fund,
or to flnanCE, an addltlonal $350 million per annum. The Executlve Commlttee
speclflcally requested that the Task Group present a recommendatlon on
whether CMA should adopt the ARCS proposal to impose a tax on corporate
gross recelpts, or 15 not, what alternatlve flnanclng mechanlsms should be
adopted to ralse thls addltlonal revenue.
After extended dlscusslan. a majorlty of the Task Group decllned to recommend
a tax on corporate gross recelpts as an approprlate means to ralse 5350
mllllon. 1: should be noted that the Task Group was closely dlvlded on thls
iSSuE, and that the mlnorlty strongly supported the gross recelpts proposal.
In thls respect. Congress may conslder the gross recelpts tax, the value
added tax. and other general tax 1ncrease proposals 1n 1995 to reduce the
Federal budget deflclt.
CMA 039157
2
The Task Group agreed that the preferred mechanlsm to flnance the next 5350
mllllon 1ncrement for the Superfund program would be to provlde EPA Hlth
"Safety Valve" borrowlng authorlty 1n that amount. The Task Group modlfled
1:5 prevlous proposal on thls subject.
The baslc elements of the new proposal 1nclude:
Expanded borrowlng authorlty should be consldered a "safety
valve". that 15, the authorlty to borrow would be avaliable only
to flnance actual Superfund slte cleanup expenses after the
revenues 1n the trust fund have been expanded.
Expanded borrowlng authorlty would be llmlted 1n any glven year
to $350 mllllon.
Repayment of amounts borrowed should be amortlzed over a liniyear
perlod. Installment: of prlnclpal and 1nterest should be paid
flrst from cost recoverles and then. to the extent needed, from
trust fund revenues.
The new borrowlng authorlty would be repald from cost recoverles and,
through trust fund revenues, from contrlbutors to the fund. Thus, thls
new authorlty would leverage tax payments to meet current EPA spendlng
needs mm the 1mplled commltment of fund contrlbutors to repay these
amounts over tune.
The second preferred option would be to approprlate from general government
revenues an addltlonal $350 million per year. The Task Group Vlews the
added contrlbutlon from general revenues, llke the tax on corporate gross
recelpts, as a means to expand contrlbutlons to the fund from 1ndustry
and the publlc at large.
The thlrd preferred optlon, but whlch 15 not endorsed by the Task Group,
would be to modlfy or to expand the present CERCLA taxes. Posslble modlflcatlon
could 1nclude:
o
Taxlng benzene, toluene and xylene used 1n gasollne separately.
0
Increaslng the per barrel tax on petroleum from the present o'.79
cents per barrel level.
0
Doubllng the proposed tax on hazardous waste dlsposal.
o
Expandlng the 115: of feedstock: subject to the CERCLA taxes to
1nclude products named 1n recent leglslatlon.
o
Increaslng all CERCLA feedstock taxes to not more than 1.5 percent
of sales prlce.
CMA 039159
3
1: should be raiemphaslzed that the Task Group does not recommend anjr of
these tax 1ncreases at thls timE, but that they may be preferable to doubllng
the exlstlng CERCLA taxes.
Recommendatlon
That cm endorse expanded EPA "safety Valve" borrowlng authorlty of up to
$350 million par year to flnance Superfund slte cleanup costs.
ACTION REQUIRED:
Approval
CMA
CMA 039159
EXHIBIT u
Economlc Impact of CERCLA Fundlng Proposal Waste End Tax
At 1:: May a, 1994 meetlng, the cm Executlve commlttee was 1nformed of the
exlstence of the Superfund Economlc Impact Worklng Group whlch 15 examlnlng
the 1mpact whlch fees 1ncluded 1n dlfferent proposals for Superfund re*
authorlzatlon would have on the chemlcal 1ndustry. A paper presented at
that meetlng argued that the petrochemlcal sector would be the 1ndustry
sector most affected by an 1ncrease 1n CERCLA feedstock taxes and those
taxes would llkely exceed the petrochemlcal 1ndustry's ability to pay
them.
The CMA Executlve Commlttee has requested that the Superfund Economlc
Impact Worklng Group conslder the affect of the 1mposltlon of a $50 per ton
tax on the 1ndustry. Such an analysls has been conducted based on a survey
where some an cm member companles reported on thelr total amount of waste
and 1:5 dlsposltlon.
The analysls used the amount of waste dlsposed of 1n 1932, as reported 1n
the aforementloned survey, and compared the $50 per ton fee Hlth 1993 sales
and earnlngs. mm one exceptlon, waste and taxes would be less than 5 percent
of proflts and less than 1.1 percent of sales.
ACTION REQUIRED:
For Infomatlon Only
w
CMA 039170
Exmm: D71
sumnmmu EcoNoMIc IMPACT smny
DIchssIoN
An interim report of the Superfund Economlc Impact Study Group was revlewed
for the Executlve Commlttee on May a. The report concentrated on the petroi
chemlcal feedstock tax whlch provldes the largest portlon of the Hazardous
Waste Trust Fund revenue and has the greatest amount of analytlcal data avalli
able 1n the publlc domaln. The Executlve Commlttee approved the summary paper
on the economc unpact of 1ncreased feedstock taxes for use by assoclatlon
representatlves 1n Superfund reauthorlzatlon dlscusslons mm Congress.
Addltlonally, the group was dlrected to broaden the study to 1nclude the 1mpact
of waste*end taxes whlch exceeded the 53m mllllon/year of the CMA proposal and
to also 1nclude other revenue proposals currently before Congress.
Subsequent to thls dlrectlve, 3.x. 5640 was 1ntroduced mm a feedstock tax
and a waste*end tax on dlsposal as the prlnclpal fundlng Vehlcles. ' Rates were
four tunes greater than those proposed by CMA for the feedstock tax and at least
three tunes greater for some major dlsposal categorles 1n the waste*end optlon.
1: 15 therefore apparent that 3 cm economlc unpact statement must conslder
how CMA'S feedstock and waste*end tax concepts are economlcally superlor m
CERCLA TAXES
The CERCLA feedstock tax has been 1n effect for three years and ms provldes
data on collectlons quarterly whlch 15 analyzed by product and number of taIr
payers. 1: 15 posslble to compare the taxes paid Hlth 1nformatlon 1n the publlc
domaln on productlon rates, sales revenue and proflts for the 1ndustry sector.
Under CERCLA, the 1ndustry paid taxes on 11 prlmary petrochemlcals of 51557155
mllllon dollars annually. Although thls tax revenue 1: about 20 percent below
leglslatlvely projected collectlons, 1: amounted to 1.2 percent of sales revenue.
Collectlons could not be compared mm proflts, Since those products showed a
net loss for 1992 and 1993 comblned. 3.x. 5640 would 1ncrease annual taxes to
more theul $500 million dollars and set the rate at more than 4 percent of sales.
CERCLA'S posticlosure tax 15 a waste*end tax whlch 1: Somewhat comparable to
CMA'S proposed waste*end tax. 1: dlffers 1n tax rate and covers fewer waste
dlsposal categorles. 1: has been 1n effect only Since the fourth quarter of
1993 and collectlon results are minimal. Nevertheless, when these collectlon
data are adjusted from CMA'S hlgher proposed tax rates wsn/sn and greater
coverage, 1: supports the potentlal for a waste*end tax revenue of $300 million
annually.
CMA'S WASTEiEND TAX PROPOSAL
In order to get a rough assessment of the 1mpact of a waste*end tax on CMA
membershlp, waste dlsposal quantltles on a dry weight basls of an member
ompany respondents out of 17m v.5. CMA member companles were compared on a
p - 3171
conflde .1 basls mm sales revenues and earnlngs of those companles.
staff analyz- otentlal SSD/ST dry welght waste*end tax llablllty of
cm member compan : usmg 1992 waste dlsposal and 1993 chemlcal sales/proflts.
mm the CMA waste*en ..x proposal as the tax vemcle, respondlng cm
member company unpacts on a nnual basls would be the followlng:
3
cm
0
Comparlson mm antlclpated revenues...w~ expe -- that 170
cm member companles would pay $125 mllllon of the n million
annual SSD/ST dry welght tax; an members 1n the responds .
group would pay $95 million or 57 percent of antlclpated taxe
for the entlre CMA membershlp.
o
Concentratlon...Ten of an respondents would pay 575.3 million
of the $95 mllllon total.
0
Economlc 1mpact...Df the top 10 taxpayers, two lost money 1n
1933, a mum company would pay 59 percent of earnlngs, and the
remalnlng seven would pay 0.9 m 4.0 percent of earnlngs* None
of those taxpayers would pay more than 1.1 percent of sales.
Dutslde of the 10 top taxpayers, none of the remalnlng 50 would
be taxed 1n excess of 2.5 percent of earnlngs.
I
I
:'I
3.x. 564D “51-27mm TAX
When data on 1ndustry averages are used, 1: appears that the waste*end tax
of 3.x. 5540 could cost CMA members as much as 300 percent of CMA'S
SSD/ST proposal. Slnce 3.x. 5640 would tax dllute streams Hlth low sollds
content on a liquid basls, rather than a dry welght basls,‘ the $5 to
$lS/metr1c ton tax on the llqulds basls could be as much as 575 m $lSD/ST
on a dry welght basls. Companles dlsposlng of streams more dllute than
average would, of course, pay even hlgher rates and be penallzed for water
added to make the waste dlsposal safer and 1mprove operablllty.
JDBS/IMPORTS/EXPDRTS/EALANCE 0F PAYMENTS
Two econometrlc models whlch we hoped to adapt to show the 1mpact of hlgher
taxes on petrochemlcal 1nvestment, jobs, and balance of payments were found
to be not sufflclently sensltlve or convertlble on a tlmely basls for that
purpose. We are revlslng methodology to use an empirical approach to analysls
of past data to develop projectlons of economlc unpacts. The results will
llkely rely on examples rather than completely quantltatlve results but Will
demonstrate that excesslve Superfund taxes will adversely affect jobs,
1nternatlonal competltlveness and balance of payments 1n petrochemlcals.
ACTION REQUIRED:
EC
3n
For Informatlon Only.
Hugh Irvlne
cm 039172
EXHIBIT E
upon an PUBLIC commsnmu
TO THE EXECUTIVE commm
As requested by the Executlve Commlttee, the Publlc Compensatlon
Task Group has contlnued to analyze Varlous lssues related to publlc
compensatlon. In thls report the task group has deflned advocacy
alternatlves for waste slte compensatlon that mlght be approprlate for
several posslble outcomes of the study of the health effects assoclated
mm waste sltes bemg done by the Unlversltles Assoclated for Research
and Educatlon 1n Pathology (WAREPy. The task group has also prepared a
brlef summary on workplace dlsease compensatlon that 1ncludes advocacy
concepts 5:111 under revlew.
Th1: report has three sectlons:
o
Sectlon I. Status of Publlc Compensatlon Leglslatlon, provldes
a brlef update of federal and state leglslatlve initiatives 1n
publlc compensatlon.
o
Sectlon II, Compensatlon for Waste Slte Injurles, outllnes
advocacy alternatlves that mlght be approprlate for Varlous
mum? study scenarlos.
o
Sectlon III, Workplace Dlsease Compensatlon, Includes brlef
background 1nfomatlon on the subject, a descrlptlon of other
advocacy groups actlvlty 1n the issue, and a 115: of optlons
that the Task Group 15 5:111 revlewlng.
By way of an addltlonal update, the man study 15 on schedule and
under budget. mum? has adopted management practlces that enable the
study to stay on track.
The mum? Executlve Sclence Panel met on May 3 and 4 to assemble
the separate chapters of the study 1nto an initial draft. Th1: draft
was then reworked 1nto a revlew draft at the end of May. Because the
terms of the contract guarantee mum»: complete Independence, am has
no knowledge of the draft's substantlve content.
The Board of Sponsors has suggested that ump conduct a peer
revlew of the draft document before 1:: release for general publlc
comment. A peer revlew would take a m a weeks, and would move the
document's publlc release to late July or early August. A work group of
company representatlve's and cm staff are preparlng a communlcatlons
program to dlscuss the mum? study results.
cm 039173
T
1
J
I
5mm: 017 PUBLIC commsnmu LEGISLATION
Rep. Florlo's New Superfund Reauthorlzatlon 13111 13.11. 55407:
on May 9, 1934, Congressman Florlo 1ntroduced a new "compromlse"
Superfund mu. Th1: staff product of Rep. Florlo, mngell and other
key members was prepared after the House Commerce Transportatlon and
Tourlsm Subcommlttee Voted 574 to reject the orlglnal Florlo mm of
February 9, 1994 13.11. 49137. Hearlngs on the mu have not been held,
but we expect markup to take place on May 23. The mu will then begln
movlng through the House for actlon thls year because of compromlses
made by key Congresslonal members and 1:5 broadibased sponsorshlp. The
mu does not create an admlnlstratlve scheme or provlde fundlng for
personal Injury clalms. There are no shlftlng burdens of proof for
provlng causatlon. The mu would create a new "federal cause of
actlon". however. allowlng persons alleglng Injury from waste sltes m
brlng a tort 5m: 1n federal court. Llablllty under the mm 15 strlct,
jolnt. and several mm provlslons allowlng courts to apportlon damages
and defendants to show that responslblllty for damages was dlvlslble.
Desplte the strlct, jolnt and several llablllty provlslons 1n the
b111, some Congressmen and advocacy groups are reluctant to support thls
portlon of the mu because the admlnlstratlve fund concept has been
deleted. Polltlcally, they belleve the federal cause of actlon glvlng
Vlctlms Injured by waste slte substances 3 Vlable federal avenue of
redress would weaken the case for an admlnlstratlve fund. The mu
1tself 15 a recent development and deserves further study.
I
1
fl
1
:'I
I
I
:'I
I
:'I
I
Senate Hearlngs on Superfund Reauthorlzatlon; on May 15, 1934, Mr.
Edwln c. Holmer testlfled on behalf of cm on Varlous Superfund reauthorlzatlon lssues. Includlng publlc compensatlon. CMA'S testlmony,
whlch paralleled comments made 1n the past, called for separatlng the
compensatlon lssue from waste slte cleanup and for obtalnlng more
sclentlflc 1nfomatlon on posslble waste slte dlsease relatlonshlps.
J
:'I
Although no companlon mm to Mr. Florlo's 13.11. 55407 has been
Introduced 1n the SenatE, Sen. Stafford's Commlttee on Envlronment and
Publlc Works asked CMA to address publlc compensatlon lssues 51mllar to
those ralsed by Rep. Florlo's. It's unclear whether the Senate will act
on a publlc compensatlon measure thls tam, although the prospects for
such actlon at thls time remaln unllkely. The Senate leadershlp,
leglslatlve priorities and llmlted time remalnlng 1n thls sesslon make
1: dlfflcult for publlc compensatlon advocates 1n the Senate to act.
3
Massachusetts Study Commlsslon on Waste Slte Compensatlon; A study
commlsslon establlshed by the Massachusetts leglslature has been holdlng
hearlngs on compensatlon for waste slte injuries. The commlsslon 15
examlnlng the adequacy of exlstlng legal remedles 1n Massachusetts for .
these injuries, and the necesslty for an admlnlstratlve fund. The study
of health effects at the Woburn slte 15 fuellng the debate 1n thls
state.
cm 039174
Members of the task group and CMA staff have worked Hlth the state
Industry representatlves to brlef them on CMA...5 publlc compensatlon
actlvltles and to help ellclt testlmony before the Commlsslon from key
1nd1v1duals. Hearlngs Hill and on June 30, a prellmlnary report
outllnlng Issues Will be released 1n the early summer, and a flnal
report will be publlshed by spring 1935. Dr. Bruce Karrh (DuPont) 1:
Scheduled to testlfy before the hearlngs nmsn at the end of June.
New Jersey Vlctlms' Compensatlon 13111;
Victim's compensatlon leglslatlon was 1ntroduced 1n New Jersey
earller thls year whlch would establlsh an admlnlstratlve compensatlon
fund. flnanced by Industry fees, whlch would also have the potentlal to
adversely Impact the tort system. Drlglnally, hearlngs had bfen
expected to be held as early as March. However, commlttee actlvlty 15
now not expected to begln before June and posslbly not untll the summer
or early fall.
Desplte the delays 1n movlng the leglslatlon, the potentlal for the
passage of onerous and precedent settlng leglslatlon remalns high 15 the
sponsors declde to aggresslvely move the proposal. mm thls 1n mnd.
State Affalrs Commlttee members and CMA staff have been worklng closely
mm the New Jersey Chemlcal Industry Councll preparlng for the
posslblllty of hearlngs and substantlve dlscusslons on the mu. New
Jersey cm representatlves have met prlvately Hlth the sponsor to
determlne his schedule and priorities mm mm respect to the mu.
Actlvlty on both the federal and state fronts Hill contlnue to be
closely coordlnated to the maxlmum posslble extent to ensure conslstency
In the chemlcal Industry's posltlon.
:1
cm 039175
II. commsnmu mu WASTE SITE mmnms
The mum? study has proceeded under condltlons whlch precluded
CMA'S acquiring knowledge of 1:5 dlrectlon or potentlal concluslon. To
minimize suzprlse, the Task Force has postulated four Scenarlos and
dlscussed cMA's posslble actlons In response to each. The Scenarlos are
as follows:
0
Scenarlo 1: A major natlonal publlc health problem exlsts as a
result of exposure to hazardous waste sltes. A substantlal
populatlon 15 at rlsk.
A substantlal number of exposed
persons have manlfested chronlc dlsease of a type reasonably
related to the exposure. A substantlal number of persons have
been exposed and have not as yet manlfested a chronlc dlsease
or 1:: symptoms (latency groupy but reallstlcally fear the
onset of chronlc dlsease.
o
Scenarlo II: A mlnor publlc health problem exlsts as a result
of exposure to hazardous waste sltes. A small populatlon 15
at rlsk. A llmlted number of persons have manlfested chronlc
dlsease of a type reasonably related to the exposure. A small
number of persons have been exposed and have not as yet
manlfested chronlc dlsease or 1:: symptoms (latency groupy but
reallstlcally fear the onset of chronlc dlsease.
o
Scenarlo 111: The data generated by the study 15 1ncomplete,
equlvocal or unverlflable so that no 1nferences may be drawn
concernlng human health effects resultlng from exposure to
hazardous waste sltes.
o
Scenarlo 1v: No publlc health problem exlsts as a result of
exposure to hazardous waste sltes 1n any populatlon nor will
any populatlon 1n the future suffer adverse health consequences as a result of exposure to hazardous waste sltes.
mule am has no 1nfomatlon from UAPEP on the study's concluslons,
the task group belleves scenarlos I and IV are unllkely, and that
scenarlos II and III are most probable. Nevertheless, scenarlos I and
IV were consldered 1n order m be complete 1n preparlng for the study's
release.
*sThe chart below summarlzes how the Varlous advocacy optlons that
the task group has consldered mlght apply under the four mum
scenarlos.
13mm FINAL upon 7 POSSIBLE scENARIos
Major Problem 7 Wldespread exposure and problems mm dlsease
II. Mlnor Problem 7 lelted exposure and few problems Hlth dlsease
III.
Incomplete Data 7 No concluslons, need for addltlonal data
collectlon
1v. No Problem of Publlc Health
PAREP scENARIos
I
II
III
IV
x
x
cm oPTmNs
CERCLA s 104
Health Survelllance
xx
Prlvate Insurance
x
Admlnlstratlve
Fund
x
Federal Cause
of Actlon
xx
x
xx
0
Publlc Health Survelllance at Waste sues; Most of the
proposals related to Victim's compensatlon have attempted to deal mm
the lssue 1n one of two ways: 17 establlsh a noifault federal admlnlsi
tratlve fund to relmburse alleged Victims; and 2) change exlstlng tort
law to shlft the burden of proof to a defendant and force mm to prove a
negatlve. The Task Group recognlzed that both of these changes were
attempts to deal mm the problem of causatlon, or the relatlonshlp
between exposure to a hazardous substance and a dlsease. Causatlon has
been the central Issue of debate on Victim's compensatlon.
cm 039177
After two years of struggle mm the causatlon issuy the task
group has been unable to develop any system that would change current
standards of sclentlflc and legal proof, yet 5:111 be Intellectually
acceptable. Past experlence mm federal admlnlstratlve funds clearly
lllustrated the dangers of gradually 1ncreaslng coverage, along mm an
almost geometrlc growth 1n fund slze. Changes In burden of proof does
Vlolence m sclentlflc notlons of cause and effect. There 15, moreover,
a real danger that such a change 1n the tort law will be carrled over to
worker's compensatlon and product llablllty.
The task group agreed that a mlddle ground was needed. Our goal
was to develop a posltlve program chat would deal Hlth publlc
perceptlons of the hazardous waste exposure problem.
We recommend that am support a revlslon of Sectlon 104117147 and
157 of CERCLA to provlde for more slte speclflc health studles and
medlcal monltorlng at old hazardous waste slces. Our proposed changes
to the statute would give the Centers for Dlsease Control (cum new
authorlty to 1nvest1gate health concerns around waste sltes 1n
Situations chat posed less than a publlc health emergency (only publlc
emergencles can now be 1nvest1gated7. cue would be able to conduct
health status surveys and screenlng programs of people exposed to
hazardous substances.
Our approach treats the publMJ’ perceptlon that old waste slces are
causlng dlsease and lllness as a publlc health problem rather than a
problem of how to dellver compensatlon under the current, or any
proposed legal system.
The objectlves of our proposed changes to Sectlon 104 are: provlde
greater flexlblllty than now exlsts to utilize that sectlon for medlcal
survelllance; 11m: the survelllance to 1nd1v1duals demonstratlng actual
exposure from hazardous substances (as deflned 1n CERCLA7; and restrlcti
mg appllcatlon of tha sectlon to slte speclflc exposures from "old"
7> sltes rather Chan amblent exposures. The proposed statutory change
allows the Admlnlstrator 13.3.w.7 dlscretlon 1n developlng the protocols
for such survelllance. 1: was the cask group's consensus that we would
be better advlsed not to put too much detall In the .statute, and Instead
work mm the appllcable agency on the proper protocol or scheme used to
carry out the statutory mandate.
Further. thls approach allows us to bulld on the man study.
Under any of the posslble results of that work, the approach suggested
here could be used.
0
Insurance Coverage for People Exposed to Waste slte Sub?
stances: In the event government health offlclals determlne that people
adjacent to waste sltes have been slgnlflcantly exposed to hazardous
substances, the longiterm health status of the exposed populatlon would
be uncertaln. To those who were exposed, the uncertalnty of contractlng
a chronlc dlsease Hill llkely perslst 1n the fom of fear and anxlety.
cm 039179
The Task Group 15 recommendlng adoptlon of prlvate party 1n5urance
pollcles for people exposed to hazardous waste substances. These would
be Similar to the structured settlements of Cort sults that some
companles have used to resolve envlronmental lltlgatlon cases. The task
group 15 not recommendlng leglslatlve changes at thls tlme, but 15
studylng further whether federal government 1nvolvement 1n thls matter
would be approprlate.
The 1nsurance pollcy would apply to people exposed to waste slte
substances but who have not manlfested dlsease. At the electlon of
responslble partles who are 1dent1£1ed and connected mm a waste
slte,the exposed populatlon would be offered a fullyipald 1nsurance
pollcy. Th1: pollcy would cover periodic medlcal testlng and
examlnatlon for evldence of a deslgnated chronlc dlsease or dlseases
llkely m be caused by the exposure. These examlnatlons would contlnue
for the 115s of the 1nd1v1dual. If the dlsease develops, the pollcy
would pay all medlcal expenses, lost wages or earnlngs, burlal expenses,
and a lump sum for anxlety and psychologlcal trauma assoclated mm the
dlsease. An Indlvldual acceptlng the Insurance coverage would Halve
hls/her tort rlghts agalnst the responslble party or partles provldlng
the 1nsurance coverage.
The task group belleves the prlvate party 1nsurance ”approach
affords companles several advantages Includlng reduclng the fear compo*
nent accompanylng the exposure. Two of these advantages are:
ellmlnatlng lltlgatlon costs, and obtalnlng epldemlology data to better
understand cause and effect relatlonshlps between exposure to waste slce
substances and chronlc dlsease. 1: offers the exposed populatlon the
obvlous beneflts of medlcal examlnatlons and, 15 the deslgnated dlsease
ensues, health care and money.
The utility of thls option will depend on the extent to whlch
people have been exposed to waste slte substances and, therefore, the
number of people who potentlally would quallfy for thls 1nsurance plan.
The task group plans to work Hlth 1nsurance representatlves to determlne
the costs of thls optlon.
o
Admlnlstratlve Fund: If 1: should become necessary to
establlsh a separate system to compensate people for chronlc dlsease
caused by waste sltes, the cask group recommends adoptlon of the
concepts and prlnclples provlded the Executlve Commlttee 1n Aprll 1933.
cm would be prepared to argue chat the prlnclples of eligibility,
damages, causatlon, excluslvlty, fundlng, and dellvery mechanlsm chat we
prepared last year should apply 1n any admlnlstratlve fund that the
government trled to set up. The task group has modlfled the orlglnal
damages prlnclple proposed to the Executlve Commlttee 1n 1933. The
change 1nvolves Capplng any damages award to an ellglble clalmant and
offsettlng 1: Hlth money he recelved from employment or ocher
entltlement programs. Other than for damages, the waste compensatlon
prlnclples proposed a year ago for an admlnlstratlve fund remaln Intact.
cm 039179
*BMembers of the task group belleve an admlnlstratlve fund for
hazardous waste compensatlon would be approprlate only under UAREP
Scenarlo I. where the study shoved a major natlonal health problem
exlsts. Past experlence mm other government programs 1nvolv1ng
1ndustry 7 flnanced funds (e.g. the Black Lung program, warrants
proceedlng mm an admlnlstratlve fund only where other legal remedles
prove 1nadequate. Such a Situation mlght exlst where large numbers of
clalmants 1njured by waste slte substances would swamp the tort system
and other compensatlon alternatlves. Untll thls occurred though, the
task group belleves a federal admlnlstratlve fund should be avolded.
0
Federal Cause of Actlon: In 1:: slmplest fom, a federal cause
of actlon would give plalntlffs a rlght of access to federal courts to
pursue thelr tort clalms for Injurles recelved from exposure to waste
slte substances. Such a rlght exlsts today under federal statute for
many clalmants. In modlfled fom, a federal cause of actlon mlght be
accompanled by other elements affectlng llablllty such as causatlon
presumptlons, shlftlng burdens of proof, and strlct standards of
liability. Once a federal cause of actlon became law, court
1nterpretatlon and Congresslonal tlnkerlng could easlly modlfy the
federal rlght as orlglnally concelved by Congress and adversely affect
companles' llablllty.
For these reasons, the task group belleves there are Significant
rlsks 1n endorslng a federal cause of actlon provlslon 1n any
leglslatlon. on the other hand. 15 our companles were forced to choose
among optlons such as a federal admlnlstratlve fund, changes 1n burdens
of proof. or causatlon presumptlons, the task group would prefer a
"clean" federal cause of actlon.
T
1
J
1
I
I
I
3:
:I
1
1
A federal cause of actlon mlght be approprlate under any of the
four mum scenarlos. dependlng upon other leglslatlve proposals. In
contrast to the recommended CERCLA Sectlon 104117 change, cm would be
mnore hesltant to advocate adoptlon of a federal cause of actlon. Most
llkely 1: would be a posltlon m whlch cm would retreat In the face of
other, more onerous leglslatlve proposals.
1
cm 039190
III.
WORKPLACE DISEASE commsnmu
Background
The workers' compensatlon laws of all 50 states provlde broad
coverage for dlsablllty or death due to occupatlonally related dlsease.
The admlnlstratlve system 1n place 1n the states are falrly efflclent 1n
thelr operatlons and are deslgned m dellver prompt beneflts at a low
transactlon cost. Beneflt fundlng mechanlsms 1n use by selcqnsured
employers and Insurance carrlers are rellable and reasonably efflclent.
No state program has yet experlenced unmanageable numbers of
occupatlonal dlsease clalms.
mule the exlstlng workplace beneflt systems are sound, there has
been a growlng perceptlon that workplace dlsease Vlctlms are not treated
falrly under workers' compensatlon laws. Although state laws Vary
conslderably, crltlclsms of the exlstlng system suggest m that beneflt
amounts paid are coo low; 127 that arbltrary notlce and filing
llmltatlons operate to bar many otherwlse Valld clalms; and (37 Chat
proof of occupatlonal causatlon 15 too dlfflcult or costly to obtaln.
Some or all of these Vlews are shared by organlzed labor, some other
employee groups, some employers, some leglslators, and some promlnent
academlclans.
From an employer's or manufacturer's perspectlve, 1: 15 clear that
workplace dlsease clalms are, mm 1ncreaslng frequency, finding thelr
way 1nto the tort system. In the case of a workplace exposure to a
known or suspected toxlc substance, a tort theory of recovery may be
sustalned agalnst a manufacturer of the substance, or 1n some 1nstances,
agalnst the employer Itself, on the basls of tradltlonal products
llablllty concepts or Varlous creatlve theorles whlch seek to avold the
excluslve remedy protectlons 1n state workers' compensatlon laws.
Resortlng to the tort system, mm 1:: potentlal for much hlgher awards,
hlgher attorneys' fees, and sympathetlc jury Verdlcts, appears to be a
course that 15 pursued Hlth Increaslng frequency.
Reform Actlvltles
Dlssatlsfactlon Hlth the exlstlng workers' compensatlon systems of
the states coupled Vlth the asbestos dlsease lltlgatlon Crisis whlch has
materlallzed has genarated conslderable actlvlty 1n the past year. The
most promlnent of these efforts are as follows:
0
In 1992 and agaln 1n 1993 Congressman George Mlller m.
(13116.7 1ntroduced leglslatlon to create a federally admlnlstered
occupatlonal dlsease compensatlon program funded by employers, and
to some extent by product manufacturers. Th1: leglslatlon, whlch
focused on asbestos and radon daughters, but could easlly be
expanded to other substances, 1: now dormant but 15 not abandoned.
o
In June 1993 the Crum and Forster Insurance Company Issued 3
set of comprehenslve proposals to recom state workers'
compensatlon programs.
cm 039191
0
The Insurant" Industry trade assoclatlons together mm state
workers' compensatlon program admlnlstrators are now 1nvolved In an
effort to propose comprehenslve system refom.
o
The AFL’CtD (Industrlal Unlon Department) has assumed an
actlve role 1n pursulng broadibased refoms and favors a
federallzed beneflt system and contlnued access to the tort system.
0
The v.5. Chamber of Commerce has announced 1:: support for
reform of state workers' compensatlon systems.
0
The Buslness Round Table Is commlsslonlng studles of workplace
dlsease reform fundlng and mechanlsms for determlnlng occupatlonal
causatlon of dlsease.
o
A number of asbestos manufacturers have drafted leglslatlon to
create a supplemental federally admlnlstered compensatlon program
for asbestos dlsease Victims. The proposal has no congresslonal
sponsorshlp at thls tune.
o
The Kasten 3111 15.447 whlch would establlsh mandatory federal
standards for product llablllty sults proposes to 1ntegrate
workers' compensatlon and tort remedles.
CMA'S Publlc Compensatlon Task Group has monltored all of these
actlvltles and had undertaken an 1ndependent 1nvest1gatlon of the
matters at lssue from the prospectlve of the chemlcal manufacturlng
1ndustry. 1: appears that there are substantlal Industry Interests at
stake and that those 1nterests are focused prlmarlly on tha 1ncreaslng
splllover of workplace dlsease clalms 1nto the tort system. A better
1ntegratlon of tha two systems and more ratlonal mathods for
dlstrlbutlng workplace dlsease liabilities are objectlves whlch merlt
the careful attentlon of the 1ndustry. The obllgatlon to promote the
equltable compensatlon of chemlcal Industry workers affllcted by
occupatlonal dlsease, and the preventlon of dlsease are also 1dent1£1ed
as areas of substantlal 1nterest.
However. these aspects of the unlverse of workplace dlsease
concerns cannot be addressed apart from the Interests of other 1nvolved
groups. In addresslng the larger context the Commlttee has 1dent1£1ed
15 general target prlnclples to am 1n the evaluatlon of tvolvlng
workers' compensatlon recom proposals.
Target Prlnclples And Dbjectlves For Workers“ Compensatlon Refom
v
Preventlon;
If occupatlonal dlsease compensatlon reform
proceeds, the reforms agreed upon should actlvely promote dlsease
preventlon and 1nvolve employers and employees 1n preventlon
initiatives.
Federallzatlon;
The creatlon of a new federal occupatlonal
dlsease compensatlon system 15 not warranted.
Dellvery System;
Dccupatlonal dlsease Vlctlms should be
equltably compensated Hlthln exlstlng state workers' compensatlon
systems.
Excluslve Remedy;
Workers' compensatlon must be the excluslve
remedy for dlsablllty or death caused by workplace dlsease. A
workers' compensatlon clalm must be pursued prior to any effort to
seek tort recovery agalnst a mum party and that recovery should
be reduced by the current value of worker...s compensatlon beneflts
1nclud1ng medlcal care beneflts. Employers' subrogatlon rlghts and
thlrdiparty rlghts 7 m contrlbutlon or 1ndemn1ty should be
abollshed. Workers' compensatlon reform should be conslstent and
1ntegrated mm product liability refoms endorsed by the chemlcal
1ndustry. 1: 15 approprlate to explore proposed mechanlsms m
ellmlnate tort sults altogether 1n workplace dlsease clalms through
manufacturer partlclpatlon 1n workers' compensatlon beneflt
programs.
Eligibility;
Disability or death attrlbutable to an occupatlonal
dlsease should be compensated but eligibility declslons must be
based upon establlshed and unlfom sclentlflc standards Hlth
sufflclent flexlblllty Co encompass the extraordlnary case.
Causatlon;
Dccupatlonal causatlon should be determlned by
occupatlonal dlsease experts usmg establlshed, unlfom sclentlflc
crlterla davalopcd by sclentlsts 1n llght of the best 1nformatlon
avaliable. Presumptlons and 51ml“ arbltrary legal devlces are
1ncompat1ble mm evolvmg sclenceﬁaased standards and are
1napproprlate.
Multlple Causatlon: A dlsease traced to multlple causes 15 not
compensated unless 1:5 occupatlonal origins are medlcally
Significant.
Statute of Limitations; A clalm should be ﬁlled Within one year
from the date of actual or 1mputed dlscovery that an occupatlonal
dlsease has been manlfested or Hlthln one year from death due to an
occupatlonal dlsease.
Not1CE, And Deflnltlonal Limitations;
Arbltrary notlce of clalm
requlrements and unsclentlflc or unfalr deflnltlonal llmltatlons
whlch preclude recovery 1n occupatlonal dlsease clalms should be
repealed.
Dlsablllty/Death:
An employer should be llable for disability
compensatlon only to the extent that the disability 15 caused by
occupatlonal factors; death beneflts are approprlate only 15 death
was slgnlflcantly related to or materlally caused by occupatlonal
dlsease. Disability and death inquiries are properly made by
medlcal experts.
Beneflts: Cash beneflts paid should be computed 1n llght of actual
wages lost. subject to statutory maxlma and mlnlma. In latent
dlsease cases, beneflts should not be unreasonably low solely
because the last exposure occurred years earller. Medlcal care
should be avaliable wlthout arbltrary restrlctlon.
Retlrees: Dlsease compensatlon beneflts are properly reduced only
by Soclal Securlty old age beneflts.
Llablllty:
Dlsease compensatlon beneflts are properly paid by
the last employer exposmg the worker to a hazardous substance or
condltlon.
Fundlng: Beneflts liabilities must be 1nsurable through exlstlng
workers' compensatlon Insurance mechanlsms.
Retroactlvlty: Dccupatlonal dlsease compensatlon system reforms
should be prospectlve. However, any retroactlve appllcatlon of
refoms must carry back excluslve remedy protectlons 15 beneflt
obllgatlons are extended to cover past 1nc1dences of dlsease.
Alternatlves And Optlons Under Revlew
At thls time there 15 no apparent need to support or propose
substantlal changes 1n the occupatlonal dlsease compensatlon
systems of the states. Current recommended optlons are:
a
0
Take no actlon to change exlstlng systems;
0
Support modest state system refoms 1n statutes of
limitations, medlcal causatlon. etc.
o
Contlnue m monltor ongolng efforts pursued by others; develop
and reflne CMA posltlons and alternatlves.
o
Oppose federal 1nvolvement 1n occupatlonal dlsease refom.
If more extenslve occupatlonal dlsease reform proposals gain
momentum, and there 15 a llkellhood chat some will 1n the next year
or so, the development and conslderatlon of creatlve alternatlves
may be essentlal m a reallzatlon of chemlcal 1ndustry objectlves.
A number of promising alternatlves and optlons have surfaced Within
the Commlttee and are the subject of contlnulng dlscusslon. These,
1nclude:
CMA 039194
1
o
A proposal to comblne a dlsease preventlon and health
survelllance system Hlth tradltlonal state workers'
compensatlon programs through a scrles of economlc 1ncent1ves
and dlslncentlves whlch are deslgned to encourage employer and
employee partlclpatlon 1n dlsease preventlon initiatives, to
reward employee partlclpatlon mm 1ncreased beneflts, and m
Justlfy employer partlclpatlon Hlth 1mproved protectlons from
tort sult. Other beneflts whlch mlght accrue 1n thls approach
1nclude lover transactlon costs. better medlcal records
complled by employeriselected medlcal speclallsts for use If
dlsease occurs, and an Increased llkellhood of early
detectlon, prompt treatment, and a return of the worker to
galnful employment.
0
Proposals whlch may facllltate the 1ntegratlon of all workers'
compensatlon and tort liabilities whlch may arlse out of
occupatlonal exposures to hazardous substances, mm a Vlew
toward limiting chemlcal manufacturlng Industry llabllltles
arising from workplace dlsease.
o
Proposals to seek federal health agency partlclpatlon 1n the
development of medlcal standards for use 1n clalms.
ACTION:
0
Approve the recommendatlon to amend amen Sectlon 104117 to
provlde for more slte speclflc health studles and medlcal
monltorlng.
o
Revlew other optlons for waste slte compensatlon and
prlnclples for workplace dlsease compensatlon.
CMA
v
CMA 039195
EXHIBIT F
upon 017 THE TECHNICAL DIRECTOR
The Technlcal Dlrector's report hlghllghts cm accompllshments and
actlvltles 1n 1:: advocacy of prune lssues.
COMMERCIAL pnouvcnou 0F CHEMICALS
e
TSCA “summon OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT mum The Offlce of Toxlc
Substances (DTS7 15 developlng a proposed rule that will impose
requlrements on research and development actlvltles for commerclal
chemlcals. STE 1: proposlng the rule to 1mplement TSCA Sectlon 51m 137 and
complete the flnal rule for premanufaature notlflcatlon 11mm. The
proposed rule will 1nclude provlslons for recordkeeplng, hazard analysls,
and rlsk notlflcatlon of 1m: chemlcals. The Chemlcal Regulatlons Advlsory
Commlttee (mum 15 worklng mm DTS staff to ensure that the requlrements
of thls rule do not have an adverse Impact on 1nnovatlon. DTS expects to
publlsh the proposed rule 1n the fall of thls year.
a
IMPORT CERTIFICATION mm mm SHIPMENTS am: has developed a proposal for
EPA to create a speclal provlslon for shlpments of 1m: chemlcals subject to
the TSCA Sectlon 13 Import Certlflcatlon rule. The Sectlon 13 rule
requlres that unporters of chemlcal shlpments certlfy elther that the
shlpment 15 not subject to TSCA or that the shlpment 1: 1n compllance Hlth
TSCA and all rules or orders under TSCA. For many shlpments of 1m:
substances, the certlflcatlon of TSCA compllance Is not posslble because
the 1dent1ty of the substance 15 unknown and, 1n fact, the substance 15
bemg Imported for analysls and 1dent1£1catlon. Even where the 1dent1ty of
the substance 15 known. the Import certlflcatlon rule imposes burdensome
requlrements on the thousands of shlpments Imported for mu: purposes. The
mm: proposal emphaslzes that 1m: chemlcals are used under the supervlslon
of 1nd1v1duals that are tralned 1n safe handllng procedures whlch minimize
the rlsk from exposure.
t
STATEMENT 0N NATIONAL RESEARCH comma 1mm smny on May 7, mm:
submltted a statement to the Senate Subcommlttee on Toxlc Substances and
Envlronmental Overslght, The statement presented CMA'S Vlew of the ma
report Toxlclty Testlng: Strategles m Determlne Needs and Prlorltles,
whlch was the subject of an Aprll 10 Senate hearlng. The statement
emphaslzed that the deslgn of the ma study 11mm: the concluslons that can
be drawn from the study. In partlcular, the statement polnts out that the
ma study dld not Include many ongolng or recently completed testlng
actlvltles. such as those at cm, 1n response to TSCA Sectlon 4, or the
testlng that 1nd1v1dual companles sponsor. The Senate may use the mm
study to justlfy the testlng of all new chemlcals.
e
ADMINISTRATOR'S TOXIC SUBSTANCES ADVISORY COMMITTEE (ATSAC7 on May 9,
mm: submltted a statement to ATSAC on confldentlal busmess 1nfomatlon
mm. The statement responds to 11 questlons on car presented to ATSAC by
Dr. John Moore, Asslstant Admlnlstrator for Pestlcldes and Toxlc
Substances. Dr. Moore 15 seeklng ATSAC'S advlce on confldentlallty lssues'
so that he can conslder changes to the procedures used for handllng
confldentlal busmess 1nformatlon submltted under TSCA.
CMA 039195
Tl
CRAC'S Rlsk Analysls Task Group 15 plannlng a symposmm on error
propagatlon 1n rlsk analysls. The symposmm Hill 1dentlfy the. speclflc
nature of the problem of usmg overly conservatlve assumptlons and suggest
ways of usmg more reallstlc methods.
CRAC'S Impact Analysls Task Group 15 writing a paper on the chemlcal
1ndustry...s actlvltles to reduce rlsk. The paper will be based on an
1ndustry survey completed last year, and Hill 1dentlfy for the publlc what
the Industry has been dolng to reduce rlsks to health, safety, and the
envlronment.
I
3:
3.
3.
:I
BIOMEDICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIAL woman:
BUTADIENE 7 The Envlronmental Protectlon Agency 1mm 1n1tlated regulatory
actlon on 1,37butad1ene under Sectlon a of TSCA. The Agency detprmlned
that the chemlcal may present an unreasonable rlsk. EPA 15 seeklng
1nfomatlon to detemlne approprlate control measures. Five areas have
been deslgnated 1n whlch 1nfomatlon 15 bemg sought; 17 health effects;
27 manufacturlng, processlng, use and dlsposal; 37 human exposures; 47
approprlate controls and thelr costs; and. 57 substltutes.
CRESDLS 7 EPA has proposed that the cresols 1ndustry test Varlous cresols
for potentlal health effects. Cresols manufacturers asked cm to sea up a
program on these chemlcals. Accordlngly, the Speclal Programs Dlvlslon
convened an exploratory meetlng and approved a tentatlve budget to cover
the 1n1tlatlon phase of the program.
The Program Panel will work mm EPA to develop a reasonable and sufflclent
testlng program. The Panel Intends to evaluate the Agency's proposed
testlng requlrements 1n conjunctlon mm addltlonal data 1n order to
develop a reasonable testlng program.
ETHYLEN'E DICHLDRIDE mum 7 on Aprll 23, 1934, EPA publlshed 1:: draft
Health Assessment Document on EDC. The Panel has hlred an outslde
consultant to prepare comments on EPA'S draft Document. The comments will
be ﬁlled by June 22, 1934.
ETHYLEN'E ome c1307 7 EPA released an external revlew draft of 3 Hazard
Assessment Document on m on Aprll 23, 1934. Comments are to be submltted
by June 22 and EPA Sclence Advlsory Board hearlngs are tentatlvely
scheduled for August. The Ethylene Dxlde Industrlal Councll (EDIC7
Sclentlflc Commlttee will develop comments and plans to form a Sclence
Panel conslstlng of mm members and consultants for the hearlng.
1
1
1
I
I
:'I
1
FLUDRDCARBDNS 7 on Aprll 4, 1934, the Panel submltted comments to the v.5.
Department of State on the v.5 Posltlon Paper on protectlon of the ozone
layer.
:'I
The Panel contlnued 1:: 1995 budget revlew 1n preparatlon for the
Management Erleflng 1n June.
:I
c
METHYLENEDIANILINE mum 7 The mm Panel submltted to EPA and OSHA the
flnal report on 1:: "Survey of Nonimlj]: Uses of 4,4unethylenedlamlme".
The survey accounted for approxlmately as percent of the 1992 nonimlj]: uses
:I
:'I
I
CMA 039197
3
NAPHTHENATE METAL soAPs 7 The Interagency Testlng Commlttee (ITcy 1n May
1933, recommended chat: EPA conslder requlrlng manufaccurers and processors
of calclum. cobala. and lead naphehenaces m conduce chemlcal face, health
effects. and envlronmental effects testlng on those three chemlcals under
the Toxlc Substances Control ACt (TSCA7. The cm Naphthenate Metal Soaps
Program Panel and Shell 011 Company provlded productlon, use, exposure and
health effects 1nfomatlon to EPA and concluded that, 1n Vlew of ongolng
research on chose chemlcals. no addltlonal testlng 15 necessary. on May
11, 1934, EPA agreed mm the 1ndustry posltlon and Signed a Federal
Reglster notlce statlng that 1: Will not 1n1tlate rulemaklng under Sectlon
NICKELiCDNTAININC CATALYSTS 7 Manufacturers of nlckelicontalnlng catalysts
asked CMA to establlsh an advocacy program to respond to potentlal
regulatory actlvltles Hlthln Varlous government agencles. Accordlngly, the
Speclal Programs Dlvlslon convened an exploratory meetlng whlch resulted 1n
3 declslon to form a Panel. A proposed onsiyear budget was approved.
The Panel will represent the Interests of mckelmontamlng catalysts
producers. adoptlng and conveylng advocacy posltlons, as approprlate. To
support 1:: posltlons, the Panel will collect 1nfomatlon necessary to
assess safety, envlronmental and health lssues.
PDLYCHLDRINATED BIPHEN‘ILS upcBy 7 The PCB Panel submltted comments 1n
response to EPA'S Advance Notlce of Proposed Rulemaklng 1n the rlsks posed
from flres 1nvolv1ng electrlcal transformers contalnlng PCBS.
TITANIUM Dmme 7 The CMA Tltanlum Dloxlde Program Panel met Hlth the
Natlonal Cancer Instltute (man on Aprll 13, 1934, m dlscuss mar plans to
conduct an epldemlology study of tltanlum dloxlde workers. mar does not
plan to undertake any study on the chemlcal but 15 merely gatherlng
Infomatlon on Varlous chemlcals to develop 1:: priorities for future
projects. The Panel will contlnue m monltor actlvltles of government
agencles and other research organlzatlons Interested 1n epidemiologlc or
toxlcologlc studles.
vmymumm CHLORIDE (way 7 on January 9, 1934, the Vlnylldene Chlorlde
Program Panel ﬁlled wrltten comments Hlth EPA on the Agency's draft Health
Assessment Document on vac, The wrltten comments were followed by oral
presentatlon m the Sclence Advlsory Board (SAB7 on Aprll 27, 1934. In
addltlon m recognlzlng 1ndustry's concerns, SAB has ralsed 1:5 own lssues
and has asked EPA to respond to Varlous sclentlflc lssues 1n the next draft
document.
EFFECTIVE WASTE HANDLING AND DISPOSAL
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE 0N LIABILITY AND commsnmu mu DAMAGE m
commanou WITH THE CARRIAGE 0F CERTAIN SUBSTANCES BY SEA A cm
representatlve was a busmess advlsor m the Unlted States Delegatlon to an
Internatlonal Marltlme Drganlzatlon Dlplomatlc Conference that opened on
Aprll 30, 1934. The Conference addressed revlslons to the Internatlonal
Conventlon on awn Liability for 011 Pollutlon Damage 119597; the
Internatlonal Conventlon on the Establlshment of an Internatlonal Fund for
CMA 038188
c
I
Compensatlon for 011 Pollutlon Damage 119717; and a proposed nsv
Intsrnatlonal Convsntlon on Liability and Compansatlon 1n Connectlon mm
the Carrlage of Noxlous and Hazardous Substances by Sea.
PHASE II RCRA IMPLEMENTING REGULATIONS LITIGATION SETTLEMENT W The
Envlronmental Management Commlttee (Ema) at 1:5 Aprll 19, 1934, meetlng
voted to authorlze CMA enterlng 1nto a proposed settlement agreement to
resolve A151 v. EPA. All the regulatlons have been satlsfactorlly resolved
or mooted.
EMC ANNUAL PLANNING 5355mm At 1:: annual plannlng sesslon on Aprll 17,
1934, the Envlronmental Management Commlttee (Ema) covered a Wide spectrum
of envlronmental Issues. Speclflc attentlon was provlded m the
groundwater lssue and the need to develop a comprehenslve cm strategy. and
m envlronmental data relevancy for all medla (1.e., sampllng, analytlcal,
1ntezpretatlon, etc.7.
CMA AD HDC GRovNDwATER STRATEGY snow Under the ausplces of the
Envlronmental Management Commlttee, an ad hoc groundwater strategy group
was organlzed to develop a comprehenslve cm strategy for addresslng
groundwater Issues. Meetlngs were held on May 4 and May 17, 1934, Hlth
staff and member company representatlves of EMC, 1:: Cask groups, sac, SAC
and CRAC'S Rlsk Assessment Task Group.
cnovmwzaran ANALYSIS The me has approved a project that 15 deslgned m
provlde more deflnltlve evldence to EPA that the agency's exlstlng
groundwater sampllng/analysls methodologles (1.e., swims) are
sclentlflcally Inapproprlate for purposes of determlnlng compllance.
HAZARDOUS WASTE TRACKING PROGRAM CMA'S hazardous waste tracklng program
15 operatlonal mm supplemental data contlnulng to be entered 1nto the
system. The program has been expanded to handle data on groundwater,
drlnklng water, and monitormgmell 1nfomatlon.
EPA supmmm GUIDANCE PEER REVIEW The EMC'S Hazardous Waste Response
Task Group 15 conductlng a peer revlew of two EPA Superfund guldance
documents 117 Guldance on Remedlal Investlgatlons; and 127 Fates and
Effects Modellng at Superfund Sltes.
EMC SEMIANNUAL ENVIRONMENTAL UPDATE W The Envlronmental Management
Commlttee conducted 1:: semiannual Envlronmental Update on May 22723,
1934, 1n Washlngton, v_c. The one and onsihalf day program, attended by
approxlmately 130 persona. Included comprehenslve dlscusslons on all
envlronmental lssues and how they Impact on chemlcal 1ndustry operatlons.
The luncheon speaker was F. Henry Hablcht, 11, Asslstant Attorney General
for Land and Natural Resources. He addressed general envlronmental Issues
and offered soma candld observatlons on enforcement at the Federal and
state level.
INCIDENTAL CHEMICAL EXPOSURE AND PUBLIC HEALTH
The Chemlcal Manufacturers Assoclatlon and the Envlronmental Defense Fund
will jolntly sponsor a symposmm on the Health Effects of Industrlal Waste
Sltes at the AAAS annual meetlng. The symposmm Hill 1dentlfy what 15
CMA 039199
5
known and vhac la not known about thls controverslal subject, and will
suggest sclentlflc ways to 5111 data gaps.
The Unlversltles Assoclated for Research and Educatlon 1n Pathology mmmpy
study of health effects assoclated Hlth waste sltes 15 on schedule. mum?
15 conslderlng havlng the draft study "peerirevlewed" prior to 1:: release
for publlc comment. Such a revlew would move the release date to early
August.
CLEAN WATER
EPA PRETREATMENT IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW TASK mum cm representatlves
met mm EPA on May an. 1934. m dlscuss EPA'S pretreatment program. The
group dlscussed: interim recommendatlons by EPA'S Pretreatment:
Implementatlon Revlew Task ForCE, removal credlts workablllty, and general
pollcles and longer range pretreatment: programs.
GAD DATA coucmuma mums PERMITS NDNCDMPLIANCE on Aprll 19, 1934, CMA
requested from the v.5. General Accountlng Offlce (GAD) Informatlon and
data concernlng the organlc chemlcals category of the GAO report entltled
"Wastewater Dlschargers Are Not Complylng mm EPA Pollutlon Control
Pemlts.... Data on the frequency of noncompllance and the crlterla Hlth
whlch compllance was detemlned are speclflc concerns.
NATIONAL PRETREATMENT REMOVAL CREDITS AMENDMENTS The Envlronmental
Management Commlttee's Water Pollcy Task Group has prepared a natlonal
pretreatment removal credlts amendment. These materlals are deslgned for
use by Government Relatlons 1n 1:: advocacy on the Clean Water Act.
CLEAN AIR
mcrnw EMISSIONS/FLARES LITIGATION SETTLEMENT The Envlronmental
Management Commlttee at 1:5 Aprll 13, 1934. meetlng Voted to authorlze CMA
enterlng 1nto a proposed settlement agreement to resolve CMA'S challenge of
EPA'S new source performance standard for fugitive emlsslon leaks and the
use of flare technology to control emlsslons.
EPA HAZARDOUS AIR PDLLUTANT STRATEGY The Envlronmental Management
Commlttee's Process Emlsslon Regulatlons Task Group 15 worklng mm EPA'S
Offlce of A11“ Quallty Plannlng and Standards 1n 1:: reevaluatlon of a
natlonal strategy for regulatlng hazardous alr pollutants.
OCCUPATIONAL. SAFETY AND HEALTH
CMA congratulated DSKA on Improvements 1n thelr second draft of a proposed
standard for conflned space entry. Nevertheless, we suggested technlcal
changes 1n the latest draft. These dealt Hlth deflnltlons of "entry",
"hazardous atmosphere", "1nert1ng", "solo entry", and other terms. We also
commented on the proposed requlrement for llstlng, on the permit, names of
all who enter a conflned space, rellance on outslde help rather than
1nihouse rescue teams, and ocher aspects of the proposal.
The flrst symposlum of a serles an "Hazards Communlcatlon: Training and
Educatlng the Worker", held 1n Houston on Aprll 24, was well recelved. In
response to a suggestlon from the audlence, the program for future symposla
CMA 039190
a
1n thls serles was ravlsad m placa mora amphasls on the OSHA Hazards
Communlcatlon Rule's training requlrements. The next symposmm Will be 1n
Phlladelphla. June 14, and the last one 1n San Franclsco, September 25.
SAFE AND cosvmmcmw CHEMICAL PRODUCTS ursnmsumou
e
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS REGULATIONS 7 INCIDENT REPORTS An initial posltlon
was prepared and malled to Industry representatlves for thelr
conslderatlon. Industry 1nterest 1n thls docket has been Very low even
Chough ellmlnatlon of excess reportlng requlrements could unprove publlc
reactlon to hazardous materlal transportatlon safety.
The DDT/MTB hearlng regardlng the use of Emergency Response Culdebooks and
Materlal Safety Data Sheets durlng transportatlon generated great 1nterest
1n both the carrler and shipper 1ndustr1es. All carrlers and shlppers who
testlfled at the May 2 hearlng opposed rellance on MSDSS durlng
transportatlon. Comments are due by June 25, 1934.
e
TANK CAR commsnmu The Amerlcan Petroleum Instltute 1mm presented
thelr compromlse solutlon on tank car compensatlon to the Joint Negotlatlng
Commlttee over CMA'S objectlons. The AP]: proposal reduces by perhaps 550
mllllon, the compensatlon that car provlders recelve from the rallroads.
The reductlon 1n car compensatlon would be, primarily, a reductlon 1n
compensatlon m cm member companles. Our Car Compensatlon Subcommlttee
met mm representatlves of AP]: on May 23, 1934, to attempt to resolve our
dlfferences and unprove our negotlatlng posltlon.
OCEAN mmsponmuou CMA 15 worklng mm the Ocean and Internatlonal
Task Group to prepare comments on several rules proposed by the Federal
Marltlme Commlsslon (may to unplement the new shlpplng act. The subjects
CMA will address Include servlce contracts, tlme/Volume rates. Independent
actlon, loyalty contracts, and processlng of agreements.
on May 9, 1934, cm ﬁlled comments Hlth the ma supportlng 1:5 proposal to
prohibit Philippine flag Vessels from enterlng v.5. ports. Th1: 15 a means
of retallatlon m the Philippine cargo reservatlon whlch has caused member
companles to shlft 50773x of thelr cargo from thelr preferred mum flag
carrlers and to endure admlnlstratlve burdens and servlce delays.
EMERGENCY RESPONSE Members of the CHEMTREC/Dlstrlbutlon staff Vlslted
mm the Canadlan Chemlcal Producers' Assoclatlon and the Transport Canada
offlclals to learn more about the TEAP and CANUTEC operatlons. He also
dlscussed and obtalned general agreement that extenslon of the cammm sun
servlce 1n Canada would be beneflclal to both countrles.
The Emergency Response Work Group 15 contlnulng 1:5 meetlng Hlth
assoclatlons representlng emergency response organlzatlons. The objectlve
of these meetlngs 15 to learn what klnds of training and technlcal
asslstance can best be provlded by the chemlcal Industry to the flrst
responder at a hazardous materlal 1nc1dent.
7
ENERGY AND FEEDSTDCK ISSUES
NATURAL CA5 POLICY An Energy and Feedstock Issues Brleflng was
held May 10 ac CMA. Congressman Jack R. Flelds (RiTxy dlscussed the
uncertaln prospects for 3.x. 4277 Voted out of she House Commlttee on
Energy and Commerce. The CMA Energy Commlttee recommended urglng the House
Rules Commlttee to oppose grantlng a rule on 3.x. 4277. We belleve 1: 15
an unsatlsfactory Vehlcle for Natural Gas Pollcy Act amendments.
Commlssloner Dllver G. Rlchard. Federal Energy Regulatory Commlsslon
(mum, also dlscussed Che priorities and efforts to enhance competltlon 1n
natural gas markets. He stressed Che Importance of addresslng potentlal
regulatory 1mpact on resldentlal and commerclal consumers.
CMA submltted wrltten comments to the v.5. Department of Energy 1n response
to thelr publlc 1nqu1ry 1n connectlon mm a report to Congress on the
Status of Natural Gas Markets. cm restated advocacy for deregulatlon of
all wellhead Ceiling prices by a date certaln, removal of gas market
restrlctlons. and she need for more efflcaclous contract carrlage programs
mm equal access for all consumers to all categorles of gas. am also
belleves that there 15 mlnlmal potentlal for a price flyiup 1n 1993 Hlth
partlal deregulatlon of natural gas under current law.
a
NEW ENERGY mmmnmu AGENCY DATA COLLECTION EFFORTS W CMA Jolned an Ad
Hoc Task Force of the Buslness Advlsory Councll on Federal Reports to
oppose a new data collectlon proposal 1n1tlatlon by the Energy Infomatlon
Admlnlstratlon (my. other Task Force members Include: The Alumlnum
Assoclatlon of Amerlca, Che Amerlcan Iron and Steel Instltute. the Amerlcan
Paper Instltute, the Amerlcan Petroleum Instltute, the Amerlcan Textlle
Manufacturers Instltute. the Councll of Industrlal Boller Owners, the
Industrlal 011 Consumers Group, the Motor Vehlcle Manufacturers
Assoclatlon, the Natlonal Assoclatlon of Manufacturers. the Soclety of the
Plastlcs Industry, and she Chamber of Commerce of the Unlted States. Last
onth CMA submltted comments to the EIA and Offlce of Management Budget.
A APPEALS ASHRAE 100.4? STANDARD on June 16, 1934, CMA Hill
rtlclpate 1n 3 meetlng of the Amerlcan Soclety of Heatlng, Refrlgeratlng
a d Alricondltlonlng Englneers (ASHRAE7 to appeal 1mplementatlon of thelr
1 0.4? proposed energy conservatlon standard for exlstlng Industrlal
b lldlng. We belleve the standard would be adopted by certaln states and
0 her regulatory bodles as mandatory requlrements for 1ndustry. Requlred
e ergy audlts, englneerlng studles, and bulldlng conservatlon measures
a uld be costly. CMA Hill contlnue to urge that the ASHRAE 100.4? be
Issued as a Voluntary technlcal gulde so that chemlcal Industry management
m 1 not have resources dlverted arbltrarlly from the most costieffectlve
op ortunltles.
a
CM MEMBERS EXCEED 1995 CoNsERvATIoN TARGET The prellmlnary 1993 CMA
en rgy conservatlon survey results 1nd1cate that on average, chemlcal
1n ustry energy productlvlty 1mproved by 31x compared Hlth 1972. Th1: 15
ab ut seven percent hlgher than 1992 survey results, and 1: exceeds the
V0 untary cm target for 1935.
PL T MANAGEMENT AND DESIGN
EL CTRICAL calms AND STANDARDS cm Voted to approve UL 783(Electr1c
Fl shllghts and Lanterns) as an Amerlcan Natlonal Standard.
cm 039192
a
r
RE ULATIDNS Electrlcal Task Group Members asslsted the PCB Program Panel
1n reparlng a CMA response to EPA...5 Advance Notlce of Proposed Rulemaklng
co erlng use of PCB: 1n electrlcal transfomers.
A ork group of the Electrlcal Task Group prepared addltlonal am Comments
on SHA'S proposed Electrlcal Standards for Constructlon.
ST mums RELATED ACTIVITY W CMA'S representatlve to the ANSI Electrlcal
an Electronlcs Standards Board approved a onsiyear extenslon of two
Ins rument Soclety of Amerlca Standards as Amerlcan Natlonal Standards.
cm decllned membershlp on the UL Intrlnslcally Safe Equlpment for
851 rdous Locatlons Commlttee.
mm E55 compuran mum Approxlmately ISO cm member company
rep esentatlves attended the hlghly successful forum held May 779 1n
N35 Ville.
CMA
CMA 039193
EXHIBIT G
upon 0F THE um-cmn 0F comwmnmus
JON c. HDLTZMAN
mm the actlve p.rt1c1patlon of CMA...5 offlcers and a number of board
members the Superund communlcatlon program, 1n1tlated two months ago, has
moved 1nto mgn g-ar. That effort will contlnue over the next several months
as we expand our etwork of contacts to 1nclude reglonal medla.
The contacts prodce dlscusslons that are not llmlted to the Superfund
issue but brlng 1 Clean Sltes, Inc., general 1ndustry attltudes of cooperatlon
to solve problems For the most part we are flndlng understandlng of and
agreement Hlth .. many of the polnts we ralse.
A number of edlto s and reporters have expressed appreclatlon at our
wllllngness to ta k and to answer questlons. The payback for the effort 1:
beglnnlng to come 1n more balanced reportlng. But there 15 5:111 a long way
NEW RESOURCES; 51 members of member company staffs Hlth speclal expertlse
1n Superfund 155“: have been recrulted to either accompany board members or
dlrectly handle cntacts Hlth reglonal news medla. All have recelved speclal
training on the s perfund message. Asslstlng Will be: Davld Balrd, Exxon;
Gene Beman, Dupot; Tom Hellman, Allled; Lee Nuts, Dow; Mlke Plerle, Monsanto;
and Julle VanEgmod, Cyanamld.
supmzmm: CDMMUNI TIDN ACTIVITIES:
Intervlews have ben conducted at the followlng publlcatlons: Busmess
Week magazlne (Fe nandez, Holman; Wall Street Journal 12 1ntervlews:
Fernandez and Ferandez, Selim; New York Tunes (1ntervlew mm
edltorlal wrlter; Fernandez); Washlngton Post (1ntervlews Hlth edltorlal
Hrlter and reportr, Fernandez and Holman; Congresslonal Quarterly
(Holmerh Los Angles Herald Examlner (Street).
Chemlcal Marketln Reporter; Chemlcal Week; Journal of Commerce;
Chemlcal n Englnerlng News; Hazardous Waste Report; Toxlc Materlals
News; Envlronment Reporter; Inslde EPA; Industry Week; Industrlal
Chemlcal News and CPI Purchaslng.
e
Brleflngs are schduled for the followlng publlcatlons:
New York Tunes, c alrman's Lunch, (Farnandez. Forneyv; Fortune
(Holmer. 5e1137
e
A number of publl atlons and 1nd1v1dual reporters have expressed
1nterest 1n sched 1mg 1ntervlews, 1nclud1ng A_P., u.1>.1., The
Natlonal journal, Newsweek, L.A. Tunes, Boston Globe, Chlcago
SuniTlmes, Atlant. Journal, etc. Schedullng 15 contlnulng.
m
CMA 039194
F
Broadcast actlvlt es: Televlslon news Clips,
at 25 states. hav been dlstrlbuted to nearly
status of waste 5 ts cleanup 1n each state 15
programs will be eveloped from the TV pieces
1nd1v1dually targted
znn statlons. The
reported. (Radlo
for targeted dist 17
In addltlon. 2 r510 programs on Superfund lssues have been dunk
buted natlonally o 2400 statlons. A mum program was developed
and dlstrlbuted o hazardous waste generated and dlsposed of by
consumers.
WASTE HANDLING AN- DISPOSAL: am has begun to "scout" company and EPA
Natlonal Prlorlty L15: sltes for shootlng locatlons for the new waste slte
cleanup £11m. The £11m will document progress on slte cleanup andiwlll be
dlstrlbuted to co ‘ unlty groups, televlslon and member companles.
The department 15 coordlnatlng plannlng actlvltles for a telenews conference
(scheduled for M3 317 on establlshment of Clean Sltes Inc. and asslstlng 1n
coordlnatlon of mdla actlvltles for the press conference on announcement of
csx.
COMMERCIAL mmmm-mu 0F CHEMICALS: Five programs were dlstrlbuted
durlng the perlod on rlsks Vs. beneflts; the 1mportance of usmg household
chemlcals properl; and 3 programs on EDB.
mmsponmuou: T e Department coordlnated all communlcatlons actlvltles
K the recently so eluded Hazardous Materlal Spllls Conference, 1nclud1ng the
productlon and dltrlbutlon (from NashvlllE, slte of the Conference7 on the
weekilong event a d transportatlon safety lssues. Two radlo programs also
were produced and dlstrlbuted on these lssues. In addltlon, the Department
coordlnated commu leatlon response for a major transportatlon accldent 1n
Marshvllle, N.C. n Aprll. Among other thlngs, the Department dlstrlbuted,
by satellltE, fa 1deo news release on cammmc (whlch was used by at least
3 North Carollna tatlons7. In addltlon, a TV newsfeature was produced and
dlstrlbuted durln the perlod on new cargo reservatlon laws and thelr effect
on v.5. exports a d trade balance.
A speclal tralnln program for cammmc medla tour spokespersons was
conducted.
I
1
I
3]
3.
:I
I
BENEFITS 0F CHEM]: LS: A speclal radlo serles, "Llfestyle," has just
lssued 1:5 thlrd erles of consumer orlented programs on the 1mportance of
chemlcals, thelr neneflts and thelr proper use and safety.
The serles 15 pr-uced 1nhouse at CMA and dlstrlbuted to 14m radlo
statlons.
Feedback from st.1on programmlng dlrectors 1nd1cates 75~ usage
a phenomlnal partlclpatlon. In addltlon m the statlons the materlal also
goes to 400 home extenslon economlsts. many of whom wrlte newsletters or
newspaper columns.
1
I
1
CMA 039195
I
1
*3Members Hishln a sample of the program should Hrlte m Llnda Edwards,
communlcatlons dqoartment.
REGIONAL CDMMUNIITIDNS pmamm:
The raw data has come 1n from the survey of the medla made after the
Loulslana Chemlc.l Assoclatlon made 1:: serles of mm medla tours 1n late
1933. The data c-mpared attltudes surveyed about a year earller. The
results are unpr-sslve.
a
40 percent of th. mpdla found the relatlonshlp between the chemlcal
1ndustry and the medla was "excellent" or "good" 1n 1934, compared
to 23 percent 1n 1933.
e
an percent rated the 1ndustry "excellent" or "good" at provldlng
useful backgroun 1nformatlon 1n 1934, compared to 54 percent 1n 1933.
e
77 percent rated the 1ndustry "excellent" or "good" at provldlng
comprehenslve 1normatlon 1n 1934, compared to 19 percent 1n 1933.
e
71 percent rated the 1ndustry "excellent" or "good" at provldlng
accurate 1nfomallon 1n 1934, compared to 55 percent 1n 1933.
The medla also r.ted the 1ndustry slgnlflcantly hlgher 1n thelr percepi
tlons of the 1nd stry as provldlng a safe work envlronment, belng safe to llve
near and control mg pollutlon.
A soberlng fact: the second survey, conducted a year later, found that
25 percent of th reporters and edltors orlglnally surveyed had moved on to
dlfferent 5551:; ants or jobs.
GENERAL CDMMUNI TIoNs: "Yellow Pages" sectlon of the Issue Brleflng
Book 1: 1n the h.nds of CMA executlve contacts and key 1ndustry government
relatlons. commu leatlons, and management personnel. The Issue Book 15 updated
on a quarterly 1.3.515 unless there 15 a rapldly changlng lssue whlch demands
more frequent re lslon. Dlstrlbutlon has grown to 12m and many members
reproduce and dl-trlbute the materlal 1nternally!
The Communlcatlo s Commlttee conducted a two day plannlng conference
May 2 and 3 to e aluate current programmlng and 1dentlfy future courses of
actlon. Speclal .ttentlon was devoted to groundwater, chemophobla, balani
cmg press repor-lng and lssues whlch mlght follow hazardous waste management
as medla focus 9. attentlon.
Vldeotape featur my three CMA lssue*or1ented him: has been copled by
229 schools. becmlng a permanent part of thelr llbrary. Projectlon: more
than sun dupllcalons by July 31.
CMA
CMA 039195
exmm: h
upon 01> THE DI'ECTDR 0F GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
WILLIAM M. sTovE-
NATIONAL ECDNDMI pomes;
KEY CHEMICAL TAX ISSUES IN DEFICIT REDUCTION
TAX CONFERENCE
Followlng the Ea-ter Congresslonal recess, the Senate attempted to
complete the exp-ndlture reductlon provlslons of 3.x. 2153, the Federal
Boat Safety Act .nd the focus for the Senate's deflclt reductlon budget
package. A House Senate conference on the tax provlslons 1n 3.x. 2153 and
those 1n 3.x. 41 n, the omnlbus tax leglslatlon whlch passed the House
earller thls yea , should begln by mm to late May.
The Senate amen ant to 3.x. 2153 contalns several key provlslons that
are of great 1mprtance m the chemlcal 1ndustry:
o
the Admlnlstratl-n's Forelgn Sales Corporatlon (FSC7 provlslons to
provlde a GATTilgal alternatlve to replace the Domestlc Interi
natlonal Sales C-zporatlon mrscy provlslon of the Internal Revenue
Code;
0
a twoiyear extenlon of the moratorlum on Treasury Regulatlons
1.35179 that won d requlre allocatlon of overseas research and
development expeses m forelgn source 1ncome;
o
provlslons m mowlfy and to make permanent the research and
experlmentatlon ax credlt.
Although these p ovlslons would be of greatest beneflt m the chemlcal
1ndustry, there re other 1mportant provlslons 1n thls leglslatlon. For
example, both th House and Senate mus would impose much tlghter control
over premature a cruals. The Senate mu clarlfles the "all events" test
1n present law a d would provlde generally that no deductlon for Federal
1ncome tax puzpoes would be allowed untll "economc performance" occurs.
The Senate mm .159 contalns an electlon to allow a less restrlctlve
method 1n the ass of the reclamatlon and closmg costs of mines and 1n the
dlsposal of llqu d and hazardous wastes from dlsposal sltes (other than
Superfund suesy Th1: provlslon could be of cruclal 1mportance to the
chemlcal 1ndustr .
The total flscal 1mpact of thls leglslatlon on the chemlcal 1ndustry
15 dlfflcult m roject. However, the value of the provlslons for the
Forelgn Sales Co poratlons, the extended moratorlum on the $861 regulatlons
for allocatlng Vrsus research and development expenses to forelgn 1ncome,
and to modlfy an to make permanent the research and experlmentatlon tax
credlt are estlm-ted to exceed $3 bllllon. Because of the many provlslons
1n thls importan leglslatlon that would affect corporate actlvltles, CMA
advlsed represen atlves of member companles m revlew thls leglslatlon
carefully and to contact House and Senate conferees about thelr concerns.
CMA 15 worklng cosely mm allled trade assoclatlons and busmess
groups to urge t e Bonsaisenate conferees m retaln the provlslons 1n the
Senate mm to etabllsh the Forelgn Sales Cozporatlon and to extend the
moratorlum on th 5951 research and development allocatlon regulatlons.
CMA 039197
NATIONAL ECDNDMI pomes:
PATENT ram RESTIRATIDN
For almost three and a half years, am has partlclpated 1n 3
Washlngton busmss Coalltlon under the leadershlp of the Phamaceutlcal
Manufacturers Asoclatlon 11mm to support passage of the Patent Tenn
Restoratlon Act. Th1: unportant leglslatlon would extend patent life on
products that run: undergo prolonged perlods of governmentimandated testlng
and revlew. The -rgan11ed opposltlon to thls leglslatlon has focused on
the unpact the l-glslatlon would have on the generlc drug 1ndustry.
To resolve thls npposltlon and unpasse, PMA earller thls year proposed
a twoitltle mu that would contaln both patent term restoratlon and
abbrevlated new rug provlslons (that would enable generlc drug
manufacturers :- enter the market more easlly than under the present
systerm. PMA re. had an agreement 1n prlnclple on thls proposal Hlth
Congressman Hen _ Waxman (D7CA7. A5 of May 14, PMA and Congressman
Waxman's staff -re unable to reduce thls agreement 1n prlnclple to
acceptable legls atlve language.
on Aprll 2a, Reu esentatlves Gllckman (DiKsy and Dew1ne miom
1ntroduced 3.x. 529, the Agrlcultural Patent Reform Act. Th1: leglsi
latlon would [on 1de patent restoratlon for pestlcldes, anlmal drugs, and
chemlcals subje to premanufacture notlflcatlon under TSCA. on May 3, cm
notlfled PMA th.1s was endorslng 3.x. 5529. A hearlng 1: expected 1n mm
to late May bef- e the House Judlclary Subcomlttee on Courts, awn
leertles and t - Admlnlstratlon of Justlce. A Hltness Hill testlfy on
behalf of CMA. "CA and the Annual Health Instltute.
CMA Hill contln - to work 1n the busmess coalltlon effort to enact
patent tam res -ratlon leglslatlon. am will cooperate Hlth NACA to
support passage .5 3.x. 5529, and, 1n addltlon, will cooperate mm PMA :9
support a more cluslve mm 15 acceptable compromlse language can be
worked out 1n t 15 sesslon.
ENERGY AND FEEDTDCK SUPPLIES:
NATURAL GAS LEGISLATION
The House Energ and Commerce Commlttee reported on Aprll 12 a natural
gas mm 13.1}. 2777 deslgned to put a cap on natural gas prices untll 1997
and allow pipel has to escape from contractual obllgatlons.
Major provlslon 1nclude a freeze on above market prices untll January
1, 1935, forced renegotlatlon of certaln hlghiprlced gas and a twoiyear
Calling on 1nde1n1te price escalators 1n gas contracts unless the
contracts are r-negotlated. Take*oripay obllgatlons are llmlted to flfty
percent of contacted Volumes, minimum mm: between pipelines and
dlstrlbutors ar- ellmlnated and a prudency standard for pipelines
purchaslng gas 5 establlshed. 3.x. 4277 was sponsored by Representatlves
(RrILrlS). and Ihomas J. Tauke ‘R71A727 and represents a dramatlc
turnaround from the earller subcommlttee reported Verslon.
The objectlve o- the 22 members supportlng 3.x. 4277 was to report a
mu qulckly wl-hout amendments. Commltments were obtalned by the Chalman
to support the ackage and all amendments were defeated. Proponents of
CMA 039199
decontrol and poduclngistate Democrats have labeled the mm a
...p1pellne*bal out" and have polnted m the reglonal economc dlsparltles
the leglslatlon would create. The mu 1: 51mllar 1n many respects to
earller Amerlca Gas Assoclatlon and Cltlzens Labor Energy Coalltlon (cum
supported Verslns.
mm the mu b-mg reported wlthout amendment, commltments may not
hold and consld-rable debate could occur 1n the Rules Commlttee and on the
House floor. Ch.1man mngell may not be commltted m the mm as drafted,
but he has temd the prospects reasonable for gettlng a Vote from the
House on the m 1 1n July. The House Energy Commlttee report has not been
ﬁlled and a rul has not yet been requested.
The Rules Commltee could report the mu 1n such a way that pemlts
all Sides 1n th- controversy an opportunlty for amendments or substltute
Verslons. The ause Majorlty Leader does not support the mm ...as drafted
mm 1:: recontol aspects. on the other hand, the Speaker of the House
has 1nd1cated sme support for an even more restrlctlve Verslon.
cm, together R th other user trade assoclatlons, 1: strongly opposed
to 3.x. 4277 an every effort will be made to prevent passage of the
punitive leglsl.tlon 1n 1:: present fom. CMA has stated the status quo 15
preferable to t a sharp mm and opposes a rule sendlng that mm to the
House floor.
Producers are e an more adamant 1n thelr opposltlon and have 1nd1cated
that 3.x. 4277 annot be amended to lessen the negatlve unpact of price
caps and freeze-. The Admlnlstratlon has also reglstered 1:5 opposltlon
and predlcted tat 15 the mm were enacted, new gas productlon would be
dlscouraged and a serlous gas shortage could be created once the current
glut 15 used up Energy Secretary Donald P. Hodel, together Hlth
Republlcan membrs of the House Energy and Commerce Commlttee, 1: expected
to seek changes 1n the leglslatlon.
Actlvlty 1n the House 15 belng closely watched by a Coalltlon of
Senators who 3r trylng to develop a compromlse mu. Senate Energy
Commlttee Chalr an James A. McClure mirm 15 worklng to contlnue the
negotlatlng proess. The House reported mu runs counter to many of the
prlnclples suppurted by the Senate leadershlp and the recent proposal under
dlscusslon. but passage of a House mu could return natural gas
leglslatlon to he Senate floor. A serles of "qulckiflx" natural gas
amendments to u related leglslatlon may be attempted 1n the Senate.
Proponents of dregulatlon could also flllbuster any effort to pass a mu
51mllar to the resent House Verslon.
NATIONAL ECDNDM a pomes:
TRADE REMEDIES EGISLATIDN
The House Ways .nd Means Commlttee reported out the Trade Remedles
Reform Act of 1-94 (5.1:.5. the Glbbons mm 1n early Aprll. 1: 1:
expected that t a mu Will be consldered on the House floor under a
modlfled rule w 1Ch allows only Commlttee approved amendments. The b111,
as reported, Ha essentlally the same as the subcommlttee Verslon mm the
only substantlv change bemg the deletlon of the sectlon deallng mm
nonimarket econ-my 1mports. The Senate Flnance Commltte has held hearlngs
CMA 039199
T
1
on a mm to adress thls iSSuE, but no markup 15 currently scheduled.
The most contra erslal sectlon of the Glbbons mu establlshes the
authorlty to 1mose countervalllng dutles agalnst unported materlal
manufactured fr-m raw materlals prlced below export or falr market Values.
Th1: same sectl-n of the mu establlshes a mechanlsm to deal Hlth 1ndustry
targetlng by to sign governments and provldes a remedy for downstream
dumplng.
The Admlnlstraton 15 opposed to these provlslons and attempted
unsuccessfully o strlke them at the commlttee markup. CMA member
companles contl us to hold Very strong oplnlons on both Sides of the lssue
causlng the cm Executlve Commlttee to take no posltlon on the Glbbons
mu.
Whlle no floor -ctlon 15 currently planned on the Glbbons mu 1n the
HouSE, 1: 15 11 ely that the mu Will come to the floor for actlon 1n June
and will pass t a House. A Senate counterpart 5:111 does not exlst. If
the mm were :- pass both Houses of Congress, there 15 wldespread bellef
that the Presld-nt would Veto 1:.
CMA has no p051 ion on the Glbbons b111, but contlnues to explore
posslble revlsl-ns m the trade remedy laws focuslng on Sectlons 201, 232,
301 and 332 of he Trade Act.
NATIONAL EcoNoMIc pomes;
U.S./CANADA mm TRADE AGREEMENT
The Canadlan go ernment has 1nfomed the v.5. government 1: will seek
a free trade arangement for 51x 1ndustrlal sectors 1nclud1ng
petrochemlcals. The Canadlan Chemlcal Producers Assoclatlon (ccpm has
coordlnated Hit 1:: government 1n prellmlnary efforts precedlng actual
negotlatlons. I has also asked the government for lower natural gas
prices to make he 1ndustry more competitive and the free trade agreement
more beneflclal. A welliwrltten report on thls lssue has been publlshed by
the Canadlan pe rochemlcal 1ndustry,
CCPA, am, so u and 5P1 representatlves met on Tuesday, Aprll 17 1n
Toronto. Canad“ The petrochesllcals chosen by the Canadlans m be 1ncluded
1n the propose free trade agreement were provlded at that meetlng, 1: was
requested by t - (1ch that some 1nd1catlon of the reactlon of v.5. 1ndustry
m the free tr.e proposal would be welcomed.
A survey questlonnalre was presented to the cm Executlve Commlttee on
Tuesday, May a man was deslgned m provlde the requested reactlon. The
Executlve Comml tee dld not approve the recommended questlonnalre and
referred the m.tter back to the Internatlonal Trade Commlttee for further
study.
NATIONAL EcoNo I: pomest
U.S./ISRAEL 5": TRADE AGREEMENT
Representatlve Thomas J. Downey ”7um 1ntroduced a mm 13.1}. 53777
1n Aprll whlch, 15 passed, would authorlze the Unlted States to enter 1nto
negotlatlons R th the government of Israel to establlsh across*the*board
duty free trad. betwe n the two natlons. Mr. Downey's mu has yet to
undergo hearlns 1n the House, and none are scheduled.
CMA 039an
5
Although Senat-r John Danforth ”Ham had 1ntentlon" of 1ntroduc1ng a
companlon mu 1n the SenatE, he has Since declded 1nstead to attach the
Downey mm as an amendment to some as yet unannounced mm. The Senate
Flnance Commlt-ee held an executlve sesslon on May 10 to conslder the
concept of a U.S./Israel free trade arrangement. Although a motlon by
Senators Russe 1 Long (DiLAy and Davld Pryor many to exclude the bromlne
1ndustry from egotlatlng authorlty falled, v.5. Trade Representatlve
Willlam Brock an: on record as offerlng assurances that all due
conslderatlon ould be given to the concerns of the 1ndustry.
The v.5. Inter atlonal Trade Commlsslon (USITC7 15 currently
conductlng an nvestlgatlon (InV. 33271907 1nto the probable economlc
unpact resultl g from a U.S./Israel free trade agreement. Although publlc
hearlngs occur-ed 1n Aprll, the report on the 1nvest1gatlon 15 not due to
be released unll May an. The vsmc reports that no other chemlcal sector
has expressed oncern over the prospects of a U.S./Israel free trade
agreement.
In addltlon to the concerns of the bromlne segment of the chemlcal
1ndustry over me issue, the proposed U.S./Israel free trade arrangement
ralses an addl-lonal concern, especlally for the petrochemlcal sector. The
government of 'audl Arabla has 1nformed the v.5. Trade Representatlve that
1: expects the same free trade agreement glven Israel.
NATIONAL EcoNo 1c pomes;
RECIPRDCITY LEIISLATIDN
The Reclprocal Trade and Investment Act of 1994 contlnues to be
stalled 1n the Congress. cm 1: 1n favor of the enactment of the b111,
whlch 15 descr bed by 1:: chlef sponsor, Senator John Danforth (Rims), as
one of the onl posltlve pieces of trade leglslatlon before the Congress.
The mu has a eared the Senate Flnance Commlttee Elva tunes and has been
passed by the ull Senate twlce durlng thls Congress. 1: has been on the
Senate calenda for conslderatlon Since February, but contlnues to be
bumped down 1n prlorlty due largely to the efforts of organlsed labor.
Labor has conv need Senator Metzenbaum miom that passage of the mu
would encourag companles to move thelr manufacturlng facilities overseas
causlng a loss of jobs.
CMA contlnues .9 plan an actlve role 1n the busmess Coalltlon seeklng
passage of mu leglslatlon.
NATIONAL EcoNo 1c pomes;
GENERALIZED sy TEM 0F mmmnmms
The Generallze System of Preferences (Gs?) provldes for dutyifree
treatment for mports 1nto the Unlted states of certaln artlcles, 1nclud1ng
chemlcals, manfactured 1n developlng countrles. Chemlcal unports under
thls dutyifree system totaled $400 million 1n 1932. Some of these cause
member ﬁlms 5 gnlflcant 1njury 1n the v.5. market. The program, whlch has
been 1n effect Since 1976, 15 due to explre 1n January 1935, and must
Either be reauhorlzed or extended by thls Congress 15 1: 15 m contlnue.
The Admlnlstralon offered a proposal for the program's renewal 15. 17197
whlch was 1ntr-duced 1n the last sesslon of Congress by Senator John
Danforth (RiMD by request. Th1: mm was recently reported out by the
Flnance Commlt ea. As of yet, no Senate floor actlon 1: Scheduled.
CMA 039201
CMA'S Myron T. Fovedux testlfled before the Senate Flnance Commlttee's
Internatlonal rade Subcommlttee on January 27 on behalf of both CMA and
the Synthetlc mrganlc Chemlcals Manufacturers Assoclatlon 150mm 1n favor
of the reautho lzatlon of 65?. However. necessary changes were
recommended. Adltlonal asp hearlngs were held on February a and 9 by the
Trade Subcomm tee of the House Ways and Means Commlttee, but am had
already presen ed testlmony m that subcommlttee 1n August, 1933.
Although the Amlnlstratlon's asp renewal proposal has not been
1ntroduced 1n he HouSE, Representatlve Pease (Droﬂrln has 1ntroduced a
mm 13.1}. 513.7 m reauthorlze the program. 1: requlres adherence to
numerous falr rade law prlnclples as a condltlon for asp eligibility. 1:
also contalns = system for permanently removlng countrles from eligibility,
one of CMA'S rcommendatlons for asp renewal. CMA'S Internatlonal Trade
Commlttee 15 p sparing thls and other proposals 1n the fom of leglslatlve
language for us 1n the asp renewal mus.
PRODUCT ursmmnmm
HAZARDOUS MATE'IALS TRANSPORTATION
Reauthorlzatlo hearlngs have been held 1n both the Senate Commerce
Subcommlttee 0 Surface Transportatlon and the House Publlc works and
Transportatlon Commlttee on the Hazardous Materlals Transportatlon Act
mmm. Testlm-ny was recelved from a Varlety of publlc and prlvate sector
repres ntatlve seeklng amendments to the BMTA. Desplte the efforts of the
Hazardous Mats 1515 Transportatlon Coalltlon, made up of 1ndustry trade
groups and Sta e and local government offlclals, m obtaln approval of a
package of ame dments, 1: 15 llkely that only a 51mple reauthorlzatlon mu
wlthout Signiﬁcant leglslatlve amendments will be passed 1n thls sesslon
of Congress.
leferences of opinion exlst over the roles of federal, state and
local governme ts 1n regulatlng the transport of hazardous materlals.
Dlspute also -nters on the need for and amount of fundlng for a natlonal
ﬁes, system 5.. carrlers, shlppers and Contalner manufacturers 1n exchange
for federal p -empt1ve authorlty.
lelted provls ans :9 the HMTA may, however, be consldered that would
address many .5 the lssues pendlng at the Department of Transportatlon
mom, that c.‘ not be.1mmedlately resolved by rulemaklng. A
Congresslonal ; mandated study 15 also posslble that would requlre DDT to
determlne the sad for transporters m notlfy munlclpalltles before trans*
portlng hazar-us materlals through them, and to evaluate federal emergency
response tral my programs.
CMA efforts c- tlnue mm regard to worklng for natlonal unlform law
of hazardous .terlals regulatlon. Internal revlew also focuses on the
fundlng mecha 15m suggested 1n the Coalltlon proposal and potentlal
Voluntary 1nd stry programs.
PRODUCT ursmn-mmu;
RAILROAD ummn LATIDN
Concern has hen expressed by coalltlons among the alumlnum, chemlcal,
cal. and utll ty 1ndustr1es that the me has dlsregarded provlslons 1n the
R
R311
Act that prov d consumer and shipper protectlon. Publlc sector
1
groups have a so asked for Congresslonal revlew of lee procedures regardlng
rallroad rateu Captlve trafflc has been partlcularly unpasted by the
monopollstlc ower of the rallroads. Issue areas under dlscusslon 1nclude
the revenue aequacy of rallroads, market domlnance and praicompetltlve
features.
Senator John Ianforth mimoy 15 clrculatlng draft language for a Jolnt
Congresslonal Resolutlon that would deal Hlth how the Interstate Commerce
Commlsslon (1C7 15 unplementlng the staggers R311 Act of 1980. The
Resolutlon'ma be 1ntroduced Hlthln two weeks and hearlngs are expected to
be scheduled. The Joint Resolutlon would have the effect of law 15 passed
by Congress a d Signed by the Presldent.
CMA 15 suppor-lng the 1ntroductlon of the Jolnt Resolutlon dlrectlng
the me to co ly Hlth Congresslonal 1ntent and 15 urging that speclflc
proicompetltl a language should be added to exlstlng law. cm posltlon
papers and am: language has been submltted m Congresslonal staff and
many of the c A provlslons are expected to be 1ncorporated.
ENERGY AME mmsmcx SUPPLIESi
EMERGENCY PRE'AREDNESS LEGISLATION
The Senate Enrgy and Natural Resources Commlttee began markup of
energy emerge Cy preparedness leglslatlon on May 9. A revlsed Verslon of
s. 1579 offerd by Chalman James A. McClure (Rim) 1: the markup Vehlcle.
leferlng ml 5 addresslng the natlon's ablllty to wlthstand a severe
energy shortae have been 1ntroduced by Senators 3111 Bradley (Drum and
Dave Durenberer mimm.
The markup press: 1: scheduled to contlnue on May 15, 23 and posslbly
beyond that. he chances of reportlng out a mm are uncertaln due to
conslderable ontroversy. Debate contlnues over the federal government's
proper role 1 a petroleum shortfall. Other lssues of concern 1nclude
preemptlon of state laws and antltrust and confllct of 1nterest exemptlons
for energy so anles and executlves called to government servlce durlng an
energy emergecy.
Many amendmens are belng prepared and are expected to 1nclude standby
federal 011 p lee and allocatlon controls and emergency flnanclal am to
the poor and nthers llkely to suffer durlng an 011 shortage. The
Admlnlstratlo has suggested changes to the McClure mu 1n support of
approprlate lglslatlon wlthout price and allocatlon authorlty. In 1991
Presldent Reaan vetoed a standby petroleum allocatlon mu.
CMA supports he baslc free market approach of the McClure mm and
several parts of the Bradley mm. The cm Viewpoint 15, however, that
soclal progras for the economlcally dlsadvantaged should not be mlxed Hlth
natlonal enery pollcy. The Durenberger mu 1: not supported by the cm
Energy Commlt ee.
COMMERCIAL pnwcnm 0F CHEMICALS;
TSCA
In the Senate Davld Durenberger's subcommlttee staff contlnues
draftlng a T5 A amendment's package whlch Hill behauculated placemeal as
CMA 039203
"staff drafts The flrst piece should be avaliable 1n the next month, and
we expect unf lendly proposed changes 1n the followlng areas: 117 the
sectlon 4 has rule process, percelved as too slow and unwleldy under
present proceures; 127 a PMN test data requlrement, on a rebuttable
presumptlon b-sls, for new chemlcals; m an attempt to reduce clalms for
confldentlal .usmess 1nfomatlon. alleged to be excesslve under present
law; and 147 mm means of gettlng CPA to make greater use of sectlon a
control actlo s on exlstlng chemlcals.
In response :- these proposals, we have shared mm Senate staff the
followlng con epts:
o
Negotlated tetlng agreements have unproved the sectlon 4 process,
and ought to .e recognlzed 1n the law.
0
A hazard eval atlon statement to be 1ncluded 1n 3 PMN provlde
greater assur.nces' as m the adequacy of the PMN revlew, 1n
essenCE. the tatement would evaluate the potentlal human health
and envlronme :31 effects for each new substance, under antlclpated
condltlons of manufacture. use and exposure.
0
1ndustry be . Ven more time to deal mm confldentlallty problems
through an e catlonal process deslgned to 11m: clalms to only
that 1nfon’nat on truly confldentlal.
CMA 15 workl g mm other trade assoclatlons 1n developlng posltlons
m be used at the approprlate tune to 1mprove the outcome of Senate and
House efforts to amend TSCA. In the HouSE, Mr. Florlo's mu to amend TSCA
13.11. 43047 1: 1n 3 holdlng pattern, pendlng developments on Superfund
reauthorlzat on.
OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH:
DISEASE comp: SATIDN
The Senate L.-or Subcosralttee hearlng Aprll 23 focused on
occupatlonal dlsease 1n general, and asbestos 1n partlcular. The hearlng
was the flrs of a serles that Will be contlnulng through the months of May
and June. Se ator Kennedy, as expected, called 1ndustry'a.fallure to
protect work-rs from asbestos. and other deadly substances, 3 publlc health
tragedy. The usual grlm statlstlcs were reported by a colleague of
Dr. Sellcoff's. such as the 350,000 asbest057related deaths to data. and he
predlcted 9,00 10,000 deaths per year from 1980 m the year 2000.
Flnally, a R.nd study reports that asbestos Vlctlms recelve only 1/3 of the
dollars paid out, whlle 2/3 goes for legal expenses.
Noteworthy h-wever, was the way 1n whlch Chalman Don buckles (Rioky
framed the lsue by asklng: flrst, 15 there a natlonal asbestos Crisis,
and second, 5 so, what should be done about 1:? Balance was brought to
the hearlng, whlch cast some doubt on the assumptlon that asbestos 15 a
natlonal crl-ls. Two emlnent medlcal research doctors made a strong case
for the crlt cal need for sound medlcal/sclentlfle crlterla as a basls fo?
compensatlng asbestos Victims. Fred Baron, a leadlng attorney for asbestos
Victims, and actlve 1n the Trlal Lawyers Assoclatlon, conceded there 15 no
current lltl-atlon Crisis, and our tort system has evolved rapldly and
responslblly to deal mm asbestos Victims. (He blames 1n5urance companles
CMA 039204
1
as the prlmay causa of problems, but says that may soon be solved through
the Welllngtn group's proposed solutlon.) He concluded by saylng, "x
belleve 1: wuld be unwlsE, at thls tune. to conslder a leglslatlve
restructurln of the beneflt dellvery mechanlsm now 1n effect."
whlle Chalrm.n Nlckles' hearlng 1n1tlally focused on asbestos, we are
watchlng clo-ely for any broadenlng to other substances/dlseases. In
partlcular. e are watchlng Senator Quayle's effort to 61nd a sponsor for
the asbestos manufaeturers/users Coalltan (mm mm llmlted to asbestos.
and an as ye: unseen proposal by Senator Kennedy not llmlted to asbestos.
Congressman nlller's mm 13.1}. 31757 remalns status quo 1n the House.
om: WASTE 51 ES/CERCLA
Representatl a James Florlo mimy has recently 1ntroduced ms thlrd
edition of Sperfund reauthorlzatlon leglslatlon, 3.x. 564D. Florlo's
subcommlttee Hill markup the mm on May 23 and report 1: to the full
Commlttee. Tue Florlo mu 1: 5:111 unacceptable, but has a few changes
such as reauhorlzatlon for Elva years, an amendment to CERCLA. no
admlnlstratl a fund for Vlctlms compensatlon, but a federal cause of actlon
and an atte ,: m codlfy exlstlng case law on the lssue of jolnt and
several llab llty.
The leglslat on has been caisponsored by at least 34 members of the
House, 1nclu1ng a few 1nfluentlal House Democratlc commlttee chalrmen and
key House Reubllcans. House Speaker "Tip" D'Nelll has told the Democrats
he wants the Superfund work completed 1n the commlttees and ready for floor
Vote the bag mum; of August. D'Nelll has told the Democratlc House to
force thls lsue 1nto the natlonal llmellght to make 1: a Presldentlal
electlon 155 e agalnst Presldent Reagan and the Republlcans.
Representatl a Robert Ros mimy has begun Superfund hearlngs 1n his
water Resour es Subcommlttee of the Publlc Works and Transportatlon
Commlttee. R.e, who 15 a co*sponsor of Florlo's b111, Will not resume the
Superfund he.r1ngs untll mm June, and am will testlfy at these hearlngs.
The other Ho 5e commlttee mm jurlsdlctlon over Superfund, the Ways and
Means Commlt as, will not begln hearlngs untll the second or thlrd week of
June.
CMA contlnue to pursue a Very aggresslve lobbylng effort almed at the
key members .5 these three House Commlttees. The CMA Grassroots effort 1:
also vary as 1Ve back 1n the home dlstrlcts of the key members of these
Commlttees. MA 15 worklng on the lssues of fundlng level and mechanlsm,
jolnt and 5e eral llablllty, how clean 15 clean, Vlctlms compensatlon, plus
other key lsues.
Senator Robe t Stafford mam has begun the Senate reauthorlzatlon
hearlngs 1n he Senate Envlronment and Publlc works Commlttee. CMA
testlfled 0 May 15, and Mr. Edwln Holmer, Presldent of Exxon Chemlcal
Cozporatlon .nd Chalrman of CMA'S Board of Dlrectors, presented the
1ndustry's s perfund posltlons. DE 1nterest to Members of the Commlttee
were our pos tlons on:
CMA 039205
r
1
o
the annual aval of fundlng whlch the Superfund needs and EPA
can admlnls er;
0
jolnt and 5.Veral llablllty;
o
the econom. 1mpact of a substantlal 1ncrease 1n the feedstock
taxi
o
the uamh-y of a waste*end tax;
0
taxlng chem cal feedstock 1mports; and
o
Vlctlms comensatlon.
Stafford m 1 1ntroduce a Superfund mu after he completes ms May
hearlngs. 1.15 posslble he may have addltlonal hearlngs on the
leglslatlon 1n June.
msomzcg Co SERVATIDN AMD RECOVERY ACT (RCRA7
Senate cons deratlon of the RCRA reauthorlzatlon mu 5. 757 has been
postponed prhaps untll after the Congresslonal Memorlal Day recess. Since
the mu wa- orlglnally reported from the Envlronment and Publlc Works
Commlttee a number of controverslal amendments have surfaced whlch would
requlr cons derable time to debate on the Senate floor. mm the
shortened Cmngresslonal calendar due to the upcomlng Democratlc and
Republlcan onventlons" the Senate leadershlp apparently 15 unwllllng m
dedlcate 5e eral days to the RCRA reauthorlzatlon mm.
The more cotroverslal amendments whlch have delayed conslderatlon of
s. 757 1ncl de Senator Durenberger's Leaklng Underground Storage Tank
(LUST) amen ant and the questlons of whether or not mmng wastes are
subject to cm regulatlons. There are some 15 7 20 other amendments to
th...e mu whlch together would requlre substantlal tune to conslder.
CMA'S effors contlnue m be geared toward adoptlon of a reasonable
surface luvp-undment amendment. The latest draft surface luvpoundment
amendment ecompasses most of the major provlslons endorsed by CMA.
However. eqallzatlon ponds or ponds 1n whlch no treatment 15 occurlng
would not b exempted from the double llner requlrement. CMA has
approached he Senate Envlronment and Publlc Works Commlttee staff mm
proposed la guage to exempt equallzatlon ponds 15 the contamlnatlon could
be contalne. However. 1: does not appear as though these ponds Will be
covered 1n he flnal Verslon of the Commlttee surface luvpoundment
amendment.
The amendme t to be offered by Senators Cranston ”Hm, and Humphrey
(Rina) m rqulre that up m 550 million of the Superfund 15 to perform
health studs: of populatlons surroundlng landfllls and surface
1mpoundment contlnues m be revlewed by CMA'S technlcal staff. am will
be dlscussl g Hlth the Senators the suggested changes 1n thelr amendment
should they be deemed necessary.
CMA 039205
11
CLEAN WATER ACT
The House"? .hc
Act amendme ts on May
Chalrman Ja es Howard
Subcommltte- on May 1
Works and T ansportatlon Commlttee passed Clean Water
10. The mu, 3.x. 3232, was 1ntroduced by Commlttee
mimy last summer, amended 1n the Water Resources
and the Cul Commlttee on May 10.
3.x. 3292 c-ntalns few Significant luvprovements over the exlstlng
Clean Wate Act, for the chemlcal 1ndustry. The Best Avallable Technology
1mm compl ance date extenslon was 1ncluded. A BAT study provlslon has
been substl uted for the BAT modlflcatlon provlslon whlch cm orlglnally
recommends. The Pretreatment Study provlslon 1n the mu could yleld good
infOrmatlD , but not qulck enough to support the local pretreatment
program.
There are everal adverse amendments 1n the Commltteejoassed b111,
1nclud1ng ’ostiEAT requlrements, EPA admlnlstratlve clvll penaltles
authorlty, and felony sanctlons.
cum: Tech leal and Government Relatlons Clean Water Act Task Groups
provlded t a House subcommlttee and members and staffs mm language whlch
reflected um priorities for unprovement 1n the mu. However, Chalman
Howard. m h the cooperatlon of Subcommlttee Chalman Robert Roe (Drum,
baslcally eld the llne on his mu. House floor actlon on 3.x. 3292
depends up-n the llmlted time remalnlng on the House calendar.
In the Sen.tE, the Commlttee approved mu: 5. 431 and s. 2005,
provldlng or Clean Water Act amendments, could be consldered anytlme. The
passage of a House commlttee mu may provlde unpetus for Senate floor
debate. a A contlnues to support an amendment to s. 431 allowlng local
pretreatme t programs, whlch Senator Symms (Rim) 1: prepared to offer.
SAFE DRINKNG WATER ACT (SEWAV
Senator Duenberger's b111, s. 2549, to reauthorlze the Safe Drlnklng
Water Act, was 1ntroduced on May a. The Senate Subcommlttee on Toxlc
Substances and Envlronmental Overslghts held a one day hearlng on May 14.
CMA Hill tstlfy sometlme 1n early June.
Senator Duenbergerls mu appears to be a substantlal 1mprovement
over the ause Verslon of the Safe Drlnklng Water Act, 3.x. 32m. The
Senate ml does not change the deflnltlon of a "drlnklng water source" nor
does the b 11 substantlally restrlct the use of underground 1njectlon wells
as does th House mu. Although the mu contalns language 1n 1:: goals
and pollcy sectlon whlch refers to the "protectlon of groundwater sources
from ontamlnatlon" there are no broad groundwater provlslons 1n the
mu. cm elleves the groundwater lssue should be separate from any Safe
Drlnklng W.ter Act leglslatlon. An area of concern mm the Senate mm 15
the absenc of cost conslderatlons 1n detemlnlng "feaslble" technology.
1: 15 p055 ble that s. 2549 Will be reported from the Commlttee on
Envlronmen and Publlc Works and maybe consldered by the full Senate
sometlme t 15 summer. In the House, Congressman Waxman, Chalrman of the
Subcommltte on Health of the Energy and Commerce Commlttee has glven no
CMA 039207
1nd1catlon that ha Hill schadula hearlngs for 3.x. 3an 1n tha foreseeable
future.
CLEAN AIR CT
on May 2, he House Health and Envlronment Subcommlttee consldered the
hazardous -1r pollutant sectlons of 3.x. 5314. Th1: mm was 1ntroduced by
Subcommltte Chalman Henry Waxman (D7CA7. Congressman John mngen
uHm. ch-lrman of the full Energy and Commerce Commlttee, offered a
posltlve s bstltute for the onerous hazardous alr pollutant provlslons of
3.x. 5314. The Subconsalttee can Vote on the mngell substltute whenever
Waxman rec-nvenes the Subcommlttee.
3.x. 5314 onslsts of hazardous air pollutant provlslons only, Since
May 2 when the acld raln provlslons whlch 1ndustry opposed were'voted out
1n Subcom thee.
CMA and t - interqndustry group on Sectlon 112 of the Clean Alr Act
(hazardous pollutants) are worklng to wln at least one Vote necessary for
approval .. the mngen substltute. CMA also 15 developlng materlals to
35515: 1n .ny full commlttee conslderatlon of hazardous alr pollutants. In
addltlon. MA and 1ndustry contlnues to urge that constructlve amendments
on PSD an nonfattalnment, for example, be 1ncluded 1n any clean air mu
that move 1n the House thls year.
In the Se ate, the commlttee report to accompany the comprehenslve
clean alr .111 s. 759 was lssued on May 3. s. 759 now appears on the
Senate ca endar for floor debate. Lack of consensus among the full Senate
on acld [-111 control, such as s. 759 contalns. and lack of House progress
toward a .omprehensme mu explaln Senate inaction at present.
STATE LEVlL COMMUNICATION AND cooRDINATIoN
STATE LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY
For the b.lance of the year, some states will be addresslng lssues
of great mportance to our 1ndustry. In Pennsylvanla and Michigan the
1ndustry s trylng to work out a compromlse on rlght to know; New Jersey
and Massahusetts are worklng on the publlc compensatlon lssue and
Loulslana 15 promotlng a large number of hazardous waste proposals. Tha
cIc's, 1n-ustry personnel and CMA Hill contlnue to work on these lssues.
There has been some restructurlng and strengthenlng of some of
the exlst ng CIC's. Along mm the hlrlng of experlenced leglslatlve
counsel 1 some states. many organlzatlons have been extremely
successfu mm thelr leglslatlve actlvltles.
The upcom my annual mattlng of the Natlonal Conference of Stats
Leglslatues Hill prasant dlscusslons on Envlronmental Confllct Managamant,
Worker mm to Know, Groundwater. Superfund and Publlc Compensatlon. The
Natlonal olvernors Assoclatlon's annual meetlng Hill Include soma
dlscusslos on acld raln. groundwater and toxlcs 1ntegratlon.
STATE AFF ms COMMITTEE;
woman: u DERWA‘I
Members 0 the Envlronmental Task Group will be partlclpatlng 1n an
air toxlc rlsk assessment workshop sponsored by the Northeast States for
Coordlnatd Alr Use Management (NESCAUM). The purpose of the meetlng 15 m
lllustrat how toxlc air contamlnant rlsk evaluatlon processes are employed.
Topics m 1 1nclude toxlcologlcal concepts, revlew of rlsk assessment
models. r 5k assessment case studles and rlsk management practlces.
The Hazarous Materlals Transportatlon Task Group partlclpated 1n
the annua conference of the Hazardous Materlals Advlsory Councll
13mm when was held 1n Arllngton, Virginia. The conference was
attended .y federal and state regulatory offlclals, state leglslators
and membes of 1ndustry. Dlscusslon centered on restrlctlons on
hazardous materlals transportatlon and cooperatlve efforts to 61nd
solutlons.
KEY ISSU'E'
supmzmm: AND HAZARDOUS WASTE
Although . number of state leglslatures have already adjourned, some
states so tlnue to be actlve 1n the Superfund and hazardous waste area.
Amendment have been 1ntroduced m the New Jersey Splll Compensatlon and
Control A t to change the exlstlng "front and" tax to a waste and dlsposal
tax. Other favorable changes 1nclude the followlngt
o
Broadenl g the base of taxpayers from approxlmately 220 to
15m 51 s.
o
Provldln for exemptlons from the proposed new tax for
beneflc1.lly reused or recycled materlal.
o
Provldln companles whlch transport hazardous waste to another
state uh ch levles a dlsposal tax mm a 90:1 credlt on the New
Jersey t.x amount.
In Alab. a. hazardous waste leglslatlon would allow no extenslon
or Chang: 1n dlsposal technlques or sltes wlthout leglslatlve approval.
Th1: wou d also apply to 1ndustr1es who dlspose onislte. A separate mu
would 51 ow onislte 1nspectors at all hazardous waste sltes who would be
funded t rough fees on 1ndustry.
CMA 039219
A substlute mu has been 1ntroduced 1n Michigan to replace
leglslat on whlch would have requlred all handlers of hazardous waste and
materlal 1n underground tanks to carry liability 1nsurance. Clalms could
have has made by people exposed to the hazardous waste. The new
leglslat on. as modified, 1: much more acceptable to 1ndustry.
1: 15
antlclpa ed that thls mu will pass before the July recess.
KEY 155 ;
RIGHT To Know
Although the brleflng schedule has now been flnallzed for the
lltlgatl-n on the federal hazard communlcatlon standard, no declslon 1:
expected before next year. Plans are also movlng forward under the
ausplces of the New Jersey State Chamber of Commerce to challenge the New
Jersey 5 ate rlght to know law 1n the near future.
In other states. the deadlock 1n the Michigan Senate Labor Commlttee
contlnue over the competlng labor and 1ndustry rlght to know mus. mule
negotlatons are contlnulng, no movement of the labor mm 15 foreseen at
thls :1-. A House floor Vote 1: expected 1n Pennsylvanla 1n late May on
an 1ndus ry backed blpartlsan amendment to the onerous mu whlch has
passed . t of commlttee. The chances of the 1ndustry provlslons belng
accepts have 1ncreased slgnlflcantly 1n recent months.
t
The GoV-rnor has Signed leglslatlon 1n Iowa and another mu 1n
Marylan 1: expected to be Signed 1n the near future. Nelther of
these poposals Will have a Significant adverse unpact on the chemlcal
1ndustr .
Other lglslatlve actlvlty 15 ongolng 1n Loulslana, 1111mm,
Delawar, Rhode Island and Florlda. The Loulslana and Florlda mm:
are the most Significant.
Regulatry actlvlty 15 5:111 pendlng on onerous statutes 1n New
Jersey, Massachusetts and Illlnols.
J
KEY 155 ;
I
pmsmc ommsnmu
The stae publlc compensatlon sltuatlon has stablllzed durlng the past
month. new Jersey remalns the only major threat to pass leglslatlon thls
year. H-wever, as more time passes before the hearlng process beglns, the
llkellh-od for passage thls sesslon dlmlnlshes slgnlflcantly.
In othe states. the study commlsslon 1n Massachusetts contlnues to
meet an take testlmony weekly. A report 1: expected before the end of the
year m h serlous dlscusslons of leglslatlon Very llkely 1n 1935. Actlvlty
1n New ork 15 focused on changlng the exlstlng statute of llmltatlons for
tort cl-lms from the present restrlctlve rule to the more llberal and
generally accepted dlscovery rule, other states Hlth the potentlal for
actlvlt thls year are Callfornla and Illlnols.
1
I
:'I
1
1
CMA 039210
KEY IS .7
AIR
Develoment of the Massachusetts alr toxlc program 15 nearlng
comple-lon. A Chemlcal Health Effects Methodology (camy provldes for
the ra king of chemlcals based on the severlty of potentlal health effects,
mm r.gulatlons and standards adopted for those substances whlch are
ranked hlghest on the 115:. The flnal result of thls methodology could
be an nforceable amblent emlsslons 11m: for a glven alr toxlc. The state
regulaory agency has generated posslble amblent numbers for 100 of 44m
chemlc 15 identified as potentlal Massachusetts alr toxlcs. Industry
member- feel that a more complete descrlptlon 15 needed on how cancer
potent: 15 derlved and there 15 a need to develop a system whlch allows for
the re law of new data.
The 51 toxlcs program 1: Scheduled for completlon by July of
thls yar. Malne Hill begln to develop an air toxlcs program sometlme
thls 5 mar. 1: 15 antlclpated that the program will focus on
modell g rather than amblent monltorlng.
KEY 15mm
WATER
Flor1.has adopted regulatlons descrlbed as the toughest 1n the
count . to 1nsure safe drlnklng water for the ten million people served by
commu ty wells 1n the state. Because no guldellnes have been set by the
Envlr- mental Protectlon Agency, the state relled heavlly on the findings
of exerts 1n the toxlcologlcal Eleld. The rules impose standards on eight
conta 1nants and requlre monltorlng of 120 other toxlns. They requlre that
all w.ter systems servlng more than 25 customers be tested every three
years for traces of Vinyl chlorlde and benzene, known carclnogens, as well
as n a other Volatlle organlc chemlcals suspected of causlng cancer
1n hu ans.
KEY 15%;
canon c HEALTH
Actlv ty 1n the chronlc health area at the state level contlnues m
1ncre.se. Leglslatlon whlch has been 1ntroduced 1n Callfornla would create
a Can er for Dlsease Control to 1dentlfy and research dlseases caused by
envlr-nmental agents. Mlchlgan's b111, 15 passed, would requlre the
Depar men: of Publlc Health to malntaln a cancer reglstry to am 1n
compl-te epldemlologlc surveys of cancer related dlseases and to apply
approrlate preventlve and control measures. A number of other states
1ncl mg Massachusetts, Mlnnesota, New Jersey and New York have 1ntroduced
51mllar leglslatlon.
KEY 55%;
mmmmnmu
Tranportatlon leglslatlon has been 1ntroduced 1n Pennsylvanla would
woul place addltlonal requlrements and restrlctlons on many 1ndustry
shlpers. Industry's concerns mm the mu 1nclude the followlng:
o
Tran porters remaln under the "ngn: to Know" llcenslng
requ rements and must obtaln a llcense for hazardous
chem c515 handled on quantltles greater than sun pounds
or 5. gallons.
CMA 39211
0
Haz. dons materlals transporter“ Hlth no origin or
des 1natlon 1n the clty may not leave the 1nterstate
mg way, thls appears to preclude stops for repalrs,
mea s, and
snags of drlvers.
o
The Fire Commlssloner 15 dlrected m wrlte regulatlons
"re-sonably" restrlctlng the transport of hazardous
ch- leals.
0
sh ppers and recelvers are requlred, under penalty of law,
to notlfy suppllers and transporters Hlth whom they
do busmess about requlrements.
Th- Pennsylvanla Chemlcal 1ndustry Councll has been Very actlve
o thls lssue and Will be the coordlnatlng mechanlsm for future actlon
o thls mm as 1: becomes necessary.
5
u A
A 039212
r
AGENDA
MEETING OF CMA 13mm: OF DIRECTORS
Monday and Tuesday, September 9710, 1995
The Ritz Carlton (Ballroom 1v Roomy
Laguna mguel, Callfornla
TAB
Call to Order and Approval of Mlnutes of
June 576, 1935, Meetlng Chalman Sella
Annual Report of the Envlronmental Manage*
ment Commlttee Frank v. Berryman,
Chevron Chemlcal Company; Chalman, cm
Envlronmental Management Commlttee
Analysls of Dlngell Survey on Alr Emlsslons
and Emergency Response Frank w. Berryman
Annual Report of the State Affalrs Commlti
tee Garth F. Fort, Monsanto Company;
Chalrman. cm State Affalrs Conalttee
Speclal Report on the Status and Programs
of the State Chemlcal Industry Assam?
Pont de Nemours & Company; Chalrman, CMA
Ad Hoc Chemlcal Industry Councll Work Group
Annual Report of the Government Relatlons
Conalttee Kenneth E. Davis, Rohm and
Haas Company; Chalman, CMA Government
Relatlons Commlttee
lD:lDrlD:BD
Tax Reform Leglslatlon Willlam M. Bellamy,
vmon Carblde Cozporatlon; Chalrman, CMA
Tax Pollcy Commlttee
10:3071190
11:10711:3n
Superfund Reauthorlzatlon:
a. Overvlew and Report on Assoclatlon
Actlvltles Willlam M. Stover
b. Leglslatlve Status Wells Denyes,
Eastman Kodak Company," Chalman, CMA
Superfund Task Group
c. Communlcatlons Support W Jon c. Holtzman
Presldent's Report Robert A. Roland
a. camum Status Report Geraldlne v. Cox
b. Assoclatlon Program and Issue Report
11:30712mn moon
Viewing of New cm mm:
Jon c. Holtzman
12:00 Noon
Adjournment
1
2
3
4
cm 039290
TAB
Call to Order Chalman Sella
Report of the Executlve Commlttee
Chalrman Clark
Treasurer's Report Gary c. Herman
Report of the Nomlnatlng Commlttee
Chalrman Sella
Annual Report of the Speclal Programs
Pollcy Commlttee J... Chalrman Corless
Annual Report of the Internatlonal Affalrs
Group H Thomas w. Mooney, The Procter
& Gamble Company; Vice Chalrman, Interi
natlonal Affalrs Group
Internatlonal Trade Pollcy Issues: mnsy
deratlon of Executlve Commlttee Recomi
mendatlons Allan J. Spllner, Rohm and
Haas Company; Chalman, CMA Internatlonal
Trade Commlttee
a. U.S./Canada Free Trade Agreement
b. Multllateral Trade Negotlatlons on
Chemlcal Tarlff Cuttlng
lD:2DrlD:35
Protectlon of Groundwater Quallty Pollcy:
Conslderatlon of Executlve Commlttee
Recommendatlons Frank v. Berryman,
Chevron Chemlcal Company; Chalman, cm
Envlronmental Management Commlttee
10:35711mn
Annual Report of the Energy Cosnlttee
Gary 5. Furman, Amerlcan Cyanamld
Company; Chalman, cm Energy Commlttee
Annual Report of the Englneerlng Advlsory
Cosnlttee Ray E. Olsen, Exxon Chemlcal
Company; Chalman, cm Englneerlng
Advlsory Cosnlttee
11:25711:sn
Post Instltute Issue Ishac: Robert A.
Roland
11:50712mn
New Buslness
12:00 Noon
Adjournment
cm 039291
r
2291
MINUTES of the three hundred fourth meetlng of the Board of Dlrectors of the
Chemlcal Manufacturers Assoclatlon, Inc.: held at the R1t17carlton Hotel (B5117
room 1V7. Laguna mguel, Callfornla, on Monday at 3:00 a.m. and Tuesday at
9:00 a.m., September 9 and 10, 1935. There were present:
Dlrectors:
George J. Sella, Jr. 7 Chalrman
Harold A. Sorgentl 7 Vice Chalman
Robert A. Roland 7 Presldent
Arthur E. Blggs
Hans a. Kopper
Robert D. Cadleux
Sldney M. Leahy
Carlyle G. Caldwell
Carl w. Lorentzen
Paul v. Chellgren
Robert a. Malott
3. Eugene McBrayer
Harry Corless
Kelth R. McKennon
Ralph s. Cunnlngham
Robert L. Mltchell
Kelth a. Edmondson 117
L. John Pollte
Seymour 5. Preston, III
F. Jack Fltzgerald
Thomas E. Rellly, Jr.
Robert a. Forney
M. Whltson Sadler
Charles E. Stewart
5. Jay Stewart
John v. Johnstone. Jr.
Robert D. Kennedy
Konrad M. Wels
Secretary:
Treasurer:
General Counsel:
Charles w. Van Vlack
Gary c. Herman
Davld 2911
By Invltatlon:
Stuart T. Allen, socMA, E. 1. du Pont de Nemours & Company
Willlam M. Bellamy, Jr., vmon Carblde Cozporatlon
Frank w. Berryman, Chevron Chemlcal Company
Geraldlne v. Cox, CMA
Kenneth E. Davls, Rohm and Haas Company (17
Wells Denyes, Eastman Kodak Company
Garth F. Fort, Monsanto Company
Gary 5. Furman, Amerlcan Cyanamld Company
Edward D. Grlfflth, ARCS Chemlcal Company
Jon c. Holtzman. cm
E. Hamllton Hurst, Nalco Chemlcal Company
Thomas w. Mooney, The Procter & Gamble Company 127
Ray E. Olsen, Exxon Chemlcal Company
Allan J. Spllner, Rohm and Haas Company
Willlam M. Stover, cm
Jullane a. Van Egmond, Amerlcan Cyanamld Company
James P. Watklns. Amerlcan Cyanamld Company
117 Monday only
127 Tuesday only
am 039292
2292
Monday> September 9, 1995
MINUTES 017 LAST MEETINGS
Chalrman Sella called the meetlng to order at 3:00 a.m. The mlnutes of
the June 5 and 6, 1995 Board meetlngs Vere approved as dlstrlbuted.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
A summary of the commlttee's annual report Is attached as Exhibit A.
DINGELL smwm 0N AIR EMISSIONS
Mr. Berryman revlewed the results of the survey on air emlsslons and
emergency response capabllltles and practlces. Key findings of the survey 1ncluded:
A Significant amount of safety equlpment and procedures are 1n place.
The 1ndustry has a Very actlve 1nspectlon and safety revlew program.
Alr emlsslon measurlng apparatus and technlques are In place or
applled near the .process unlt rather than at the fencellne or 1n the
communlty.
There Is substantlal operator 1nput (human factory 1n most of these
monltorlng and safety systems.
The report will be dellvered to Congressman Dlngell later 1n September
followlng completlon and flnal revlew of the contractors' analysls of the data.
There was conslderable dlscusslon concernlng the ultlmate publlc release of the
report and the Indlvldual company's ability to be able to effectlvely respond to
the lssues that mlght be ralsed.
sum: AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
The comnlttee's annual report, supplemented Hlth Chalman Fort's report.
Is attached as Exhlblt B.
sum: CHEMICAL muusmy ASSOCIATIONS
Mr. Wood presented the report mxmm: c7 of an ad hoc group whlch had
studled the status and programs of the Varlous state chemlcal Industry ass clatlons. Mr. Wood hlghllghted the followlng findings and recommendatlons:
The 19 state groups represent a Significant resource to the 1ndustry.
am has done a good job In the past 475 years In nurturlng and
supportlng these groups.
cm 039293
2293
cm needs Co contlnue co evaluate and 61nd approprlate ways to
utilize the resource chat these groups represent, whlle recognlzlng
chat some states will always be able to do more Chan others.
Member company senlor executlves need to provlde strong, top down
personal and corporate support for these groups.
Some addltlonal expendlture of cm resources 1n the form of seed
money would be deslrable.
There was conslderable dlscusslon of the relatlve strengths of the state
organlzatlons, the need for addltlonal state groups, and the role of the Board and
the 1nd1v1dual Dlrectors 1n movlng these programs forward and 1n resolvlng any
problems or shortfalls 1n company 1nvolvement. The Vlew was expressed that the
Board and the Indlvldual Dlrectors feel the need to have contlnulng input, as
approprlate, on those areas where thelr actlon. elther 1nd1v1dually or colletk
tlvely, 15 warranted. Mr. Roland 1nd1cated that there would be approprlate
followup actlon based on the data 1n the report and the Board's request.
sovmmmm RELATIONS COMMITTEE
A summary of the commlttee's annual report 15 attached as Exhibit D.
TAX REFORM LEGISLATION
Mr. Bellamy's report 15 attached as Exhlblt E.
cm actlvltles 1nclud1ng:
He hlghllghted several
The preparatlon of two tax studles on effectlve tax rates (Price
Waterhouse7 and on the economc Impact of the Admlnlstratlon's
Completlon of a serles of lssue papers.
A program of contacts mm Ways and Means Commlttee members.
Followlng ms presentatlon, there was dlscusslon of how actlve the
Assoclatlon should be on the tax recom lssue and where 1: should be ranked 1n the
overall 11:: of Assoclatlon prlorltles. Further dlscusslon was deferred to the
Executlve Commlttee meetlng that afternoon.
swmmm REAUTHDRIZATIDN
a. Assoclatlon Actlvltles.
Mr. Stover presented an overvlew of
Assoclatlon actlvltles Hlth respect to Superfund reauthorlzatlon.
b. Leglslatlve Status.
Mr. Denyes' report 15 attached as Exhlblt F.
He hlghllghted pendlng actlon on the Senate floor on s. 51 and 1n the House Ways
and Means, and Publlc Works and Transportatlon Commlttees. Followlng ms presentai
tlon, there was dlscusslon of the senlor executlve asslgnments to Visit key Members
cm 039294
2294
of Congress and she polnts whlch would be made durlng those Visits. Further
dlscusslon of Assoclatlon strategles was deferred to the Executlve Commlttee
meetlng.
REPORT 017 THE mmsnmm
Hr. Roland's report 15 attached as Exhibit G. Dr. Cox presented a
status report on CHEMNET'S luvplementatlon whlch has 41 companles Signed on and 1:
Scheduled to begln operatlons 1n October. Br. 2911 reported on the August CHA
conference on 1nsurance and 1:5 flndlngs. He dlscussed posslble avenues of cm
Involvement other than the formatlon of a captlve Insurance company and requested
1nput from the Board on what dlrectlon the CHA effort should take. Hr. Stover
reported on the pendlng Conference Commlttee actlon regardlng reauthorlzatlon of
the Clean Water Act. Hr. Holtzman descrlbed the upcomlng open meetlng of the
Communlcatlons Comtlttee on CAER. Hr. Roland reported on plans and programs for
the October Chemlcal Industry Conference.
The Board adjourned untll 9:00 a.m.
Tuesday, September 10.
Tuesday, September 10, 1995
"CLEANING up... FILE
Prlor to the beglnnlng of the fomal meetlng, the recent CHA £11m
entltled "Cleanlng Up" was presented for those Dlrectors who had expressed 1nter7
est.
REPORT 017 THE EXECUTIVE coammm
Chalrman Clark reported on the ltems dlscussed and actlons taken by the
Executlve Commlttee the precedlng day. Chalman Clark 1nd1cated that she Execui
tlve Commlttee's rccommendstlons on those subjects comlng before the Board would
be reported followlng presentatlon of each agenda item, but prior to the request
for flnal actlon. He reported that the Executlve Commlttee took the followlng
actlons:
Approved four standlng commlttee and LAG appolntments.
Recommended for Board actlon the Nomlnatlng Commlttee's report.
Approved revlslons to the Speclal Programs Pollcy Comlttee Charter,
Prlnclples and Operatlng Guldellnes.
Recommended for Board actlon the proposed posltlon on a posslble
U.S./Canada Free Trade Agreement.
Deferred the proposed posltlon on multllateral trade negotlatlons
(mm on chemlcal tarlff cuttlng, pendlng further revlew by the
Internatlonal Trade Commlttee.
cm 039295
2295
Recommended for Board actlon the proposed posltlon on the protectlon
of groundwater quallty.
Requested the Envlronmental Management Commlttee m revlse 1:5
proposal on an Assoclatlon pollcy and program for alr toxlcs.
Dlscussed Superfund reauthorlzatlon strategles and relterated the
Importance of the senlor executlve congresslonal Visits.
Dlscussed the unpact of recent chemlcal 1nc1dents on the
Assoclatlon's actlvltles. 1nclud1ng a request to fund the CAER and
CR: programs. The fundlng request was referred to the Flnance
Commlttee. Other areas reported as unpasted were plant safety, alr
toxlcs and rlsk perceptlon and acceptance.
Dlscussed the tax recom lssue and 1:5 relatlve priority. Agreed
that 1: should be a high prlorlty issue, but that 1: should not:
dlvert Assoclatlon resources from Superfund and therefore should be
addressed utlllzlng prlnclpally member company personnel. Requested
that an approprlate actlon plan be prepared.
TREASURER'S REPORT
Mr. Herman reported on the most current flnanclal report avaliable
whlch covered the flrst two months of the flscal year through July 31. In thls
perlod the Assoclatlon had revenue of $11,734,000 and expenses of $1,709,500. As
of September 3, dues had been recelved from all but nine members. Followup 15
contlnulng and no problem 15 antlclpated at thls tune Hlth respect to payment by
those companles.
He also reported that as
the Assoclatlon's budgeted outslde
earller than nomal. In addltlon.
support the two tax pollcy studles
1nd1cated by Mr. Berryman on the prevlous day,
consultlng funds are belng commltted somewhat
$55,000 has been transferred 1nternally to
whlch Mr. Bellamy reported on the prevlous day.
REPORT 017 THE NDMINATING COMMITTEE
Reportlng as Chalrman of the Nomlnatlng Commlttee, Mr. Sella presented a
nomlnatlon to £111 a Vacancy on the Board of Dlrectors caused by the reslgnatlon
of Rlchard J. Mahoney of the Monsanto Company.
on MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1: was
VOTED: That F. Jack Fltzgerald, Executlve
Vice Presldent, Chemlcals. Plastlcs and
Flbers, Monsanto Company be elected as a
Dlrector through May 31, 1935.
cm 039295
2295
SPECIAL woman: POLICY COMMITTEE
Mr. Corless presented the annual report of the Speclal Programs Pollcy
Commlttee. He 1nd1cated the speclal programs area 15 generally operatlng well,
although there are several areas that need further attentlon, and that am offers
many advantages to those companles deslrlng to establlsh speclal program acmvr
tles.
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS snow
A summary of the group's annual report 15 attached as Exhlblt 3.
INTERNATIONAL TRADE ISSUES
a. U.S./Canada Free Trade Agreement
Mr. Spllner presented a
proposed posltlon on a posslble bllateral free trade agreement between the Unlted
States and Canada. Mr. Clark 1nd1cated that the Executlve Commlttee had recom*
mended the posltlon for Board approval.
on MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1: was
VOTED: That the proposed posltlon state*
ment as presented by Mr. Spllner and as
set forth 1n Exhlblt I be approved.
b. MTN Chemlcal Tarlff Cuttlng
Mr. Spllner presented background
on a posltlon statement regardlng posslble across*the*board chemlcal tarlff
reductlons 1n the next round of multllateral trade negotlatlons 1mm whlch
posltlon had been presented to the Executlve Commlttee the prevlous day. He
hlghllghted the areas of concern ralsed by the Executlve Commlttee whlch Hill
requlre further revlew.
0N MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1: was
VOTED: That wlthout prejudlce m the
orlglnal proposal, the Internatlonal
Trade Commlttee revlew the lssue 1n llght
of the concerns ralsed by the Executlve
Commlttee and brlng forward a revlsed
proposal at the October meetlng.
Board members were urged to provlde thelr wrltten comments on the MTN
Issue to the Internatlonal Trade Commlttee as soon as posslble.
snowuwnm QUALITY
Mr. Berryman also presented an overvlew of CMA'S overall groundwater
program and actlvltles whlch 15 attached as Exhlblt J71.
cm 039297
2297
Mr. Berryman presented a proposed posltlon on the protectlon of groundwater quallty whlch had been endorsed, um amendments, by the Executlve Commlttee
the prevlous day.
on MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1: was
VOTED: That the posltlon on the protetk
tlon of groundwater quallty, as set forth
1n Exmm: J72, be approved.
ENERGY COMMITTEE
19
The commlttee's annual report, supplemented by Chalman Fuman's report,
15 attached as Exhlblt K.
ENGINEERING ADVISORY COMMITTEE
The commlttee's annual report, supplemented by Chalman Olsen's report,
15 attached as Exhlblt L. Followlng the report, there was conslderable dlscusslon
of the feaslblllty of sharlng accldent 1nfomatlon among companles and of provldi
mg analysls of longstandlng 1ndustry practlces whlch should be revlewed. 1: was
agreed that the Englneerlng Advlsory Commlttee and the Health and Safety Commlttee
would examlne these areas for posslble actlon.
mmsnmm's REPORT
Mr. Roland reported on the unpact on CMA lssues of the recent 1nc1dents
at Instltute and other locatlons. He Indlcated that there were four major areas
where ha belleved the Assoclatlon needed to focus 1:: efforts to meet the
helghtened concern and potentlal leglslatlve or regulatory actlvlty. These areas
'1ncluded:
Full and aggresslve 1mplementatlon of the CARR and mum programs
Plant and process safety
Alr toxlcs
Rlsk perceptlon and acceptance.
Vlth respect to the CAER and mum programs, Mr. Roland reported that a
proposal to staff and fund the CARR and Chemlcal Referral Center (cum programs
for the remalnder of the flscal year had been referred to the Flnance Commlttee
for further revlew prior to the October Executlve Commlttee and Board meetlngs.
mm respect to the plant safety issue, 1: was agreed that closer
liaison Hlth the Amerlcan Instltute of Chemlcal Englneers (AIChE7 was necessary,
5: was also agreed that the Health and Safety Commlttee and the Englneerlng
Advlsory Commlttee are worklng on expanded actlvltles 1n thls area.
cm 039299
2299
mm respect Co the rlsk perceptlon and acceptance Issue, Mr. Roland
Indlcated that we would have to look for new and creatlve ways to communlcate
effectlvely Hlth the publlc.
NEW BUSINESS
5. Clean Sltes Inc.
Dr, Forney presented an update on Clean
Sltes Inc. actlvltles and accompllshments. He also reported on the need to 51 .~ 3
senlor Industry executlve for (:51 before the end of the year and he urged Boa d
members to submlt candldates' names to Dr. Fernandez who Is headlng up the s-arch
effort.
b. Tax Refom
Mr. Malott urged that CMA take the lead on key
chemlcal Industry Issues, such as capltal cost recovery and Internatlonal competk
tlveness, as the tax reform debate accelerates. Mr. Sella Indlcated that he
Executlve Commlttee was In agreement that thls was a prlorlty lssue and hat a
work plan based on a hlgh degree of member company partlclpatlon would we brought
forward.
a. Superfund
The Importance of the asslgned congresslonal Visits
by the Dlrectors was emphaslzed as was the need to coordlnate and rear: on those
Visits to CMA'S Government Relatlons Department. There was addltlon.d15cusslon
of the Assoclatlon's posture 1n the flnal weeks of the Superfund d-nate. The
Importance of maintaining solldarlty In the approved CMA pollcy poltlons was
stressed.
e
e
on motlon. duly made and seconded, the meetlng was adjourned at 12 noon.
Charles v. Van Vlack
Corporate Secretary
Chalrman. am Board of Dlrectors
cm 039299
EXHIBIT A
REPORT 017 THE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
TO THE BOARD 017 DIRECTORS
September 9, 1995
executlve summary
mama Accompmsamms
The Envlronmental Management Conlttae's 199471995 year an once agaln
full“ diversified, and productlve. The Commlttee effec 1Vely and
successfully managed envlronental Matter” before regu story agencles,
Congress, federal courts, and the publlc. In addltlo , the we 15
worklng closely mm the State Affalrs Commlttee m .ddress evolvmg
B&Bte envlronmental lssues. A descrlptlon of the luv '5 major
accompllshments 15 set forth 1n Qlapter z. A swaar of these
accompllshments 1ncludes >
o The 224:, 1n conjunctlon mm the Government Rel.tlons Commlttee
has actlvely advocated reauthorlsatlon and approrlate amendment of the full spectrum of envlrolmmntal leglslatlon ~
Superfund, Resource Conservatlon and Recovery A (RCRA),
the 5365 Drlnklng water Act, Clean Alr Act, an Clean Water
Act. The end result of the 1994795 efforts was a comprehenslve
amendment of RCRA. cm efforts resulted 1n Slnlflcant
modlflcatlons to the RCRA amandsents to make several requlre*
ments more palatable. We bevel
(17 proposed sound leglslai
tlve alternatlveS; 127 promoted aendaents hat assure costeffectlve requlrements; and 137 have opposed amendments that
mpose unjustlfled restralnts on 1ndustry -peratlon and
potentlal growth or those that offer 11: IE or no commensurate
envlronmental beneflts. At thls tune, thre 15 a
real llkellhood that mendments to the c ean Water Act.
Superfund. and the safe Drlnklng Water at Will be enacted
thls year.
0 One of the key elements of CMA'S ha ardous waste management
program 15 m establlsh 1ndustry treds 1n member company
hazardous waste dlsposal practlces. o achleve thls objetr
tlve the am conducted for the thlr- year, a survey of
waste dlsposal practlces for 1933, and 15 managlng a 51mm
survey for 1934. The three year s rvey results show Very
favorable dlsposal practlce tren . The survey results have
proven to be a Vary Valuable el- en: 1n DtA's Superfund
leglslatlve and communlcatlons rogrms, and as a part of the
full spectrum of solld waste avocacy actlvltles.
o Durlng the past year, the r.1dly escalatlng lssue of alr
toxlcs has taken up an 1ncre.ed level of actlvlty and has
great significance to the up and the 1ndustry 1n the past
year. The ma managed a sur ey requested by Congressman
mngen on monltorlng and -tectlon systems for chemlcals and
emergency respons systems .t chenleel 1ndustry plants. In 3
cm nzeann
rwlated uptctl the EMC h.s establlshed an ad hoe group to
davalop a comprehenslve ork plan for alr toxlcs. Although Ha
Bra 5:111 1n tha 1n1t1. phasas of thls actlvlty CMA'S efforts
hava already begun to utaln results. Wa ware prepared to
address 1n 3 construe 1Ve yat forceful nature tha flrst of what
could be a serles of Aeglslatlve proposals on alr toxlcs
enlsslons. Th1: actl 1ty Will be one of tha crltlcal lssues
CMA/IMC Will be add essmg 1n the next few years.
0 A second area of 1ncreased actlvlty 1: 1n the groundwater
area. The EMC has ad 1n place for the past year an Ad Hoc
Groundwater coord natlng Coesalttaa to assure overall coordlnai
tlon of cm ccsm ttee actlvltles 1n unplementlng CMA'S
groundwater wor- plan. The luvplementatlon of the work plan 15
necessary to auras: groundwater related lssues at both the
state and fade 31 level. CMA'S actlvltles have been
effectlve 1n.ssur1ng that the reauthorlzatlon of the Safe
Drlnklng wat-r Act does not became the Vehlcle for addresslng
groundwater ssues. CMA 15 vlewed by members of Congress,
and mm as emg 1n the forefront on groundwater matters and
15 looked vo by other 1ndustry groups to play a leadershlp
role.
0 am so 1nues to promote a reasonable luvplementatlon of the
exlstlng and recently mended PCRA hazardous waste requlre*
ments. the of the key EMC actlvltles was to conduct three
educat ~nal semlnars on the new RCM amewhants. and compllance
Hlth p RA substantlve and procedural requlrements... The
semln.rs were held 1n conjunctlon mm the Councll of Chemlcal
Assolatlons. on the regulatory lssues, cm efforts have been
prlu—rlly geared to assure that technlcally sound ACRA regular
:10 s are belng developed 1n 3 tlmely fashlon. DE speclflc
co cern are IPA'S regulatlons for unplementlng the land
d sposal ban requlrements. In llght of the new AC PA regulatory
.qulrements, we antlclpate a Vary high level of actlvlty of
he ACAA Regulatlons Task Group 1n addresslng the new 1mple*
mentlng regulatlons to assure that they are needed, technlcally
characterlstlcs, and transport of contamlnants.
Ebr states where groundwater
quantlty 15 a concern, thls may not be separable from the quallty issue. States
may choose to regulate the wlthdrawal of groundwater as may be approprlate to
protect groundwater quallty as part of 1:: state groundwater quallty protectlon
program. CMA does not see a federal role 1n state evaluatlon of water quallty
unpacts of wlthdrawal programs and statutes.
Under some clrcumstanceS, such as 1n Vulnerable hydrogeologlcal areas,
state or local governments may choose to unplement plannlng of the use of the
Land (for future actlv1t1e57 overlylng the aqulfer or the recharge zone to
assure protectlon of groundwater quallty. Land use and 50115 1nfomatlon should
be used 1n conjunctlon mm aqulfer mapping to develop approprlate land use
management declslons. Such controls may 1nclude zonlng restrlctlons,
requlrements for septlc tank placement, requlrements for the siting of new
facllltles where potentlal adverse unpacts from groundwater contamlnatlon are
especlally Significant, restrlctlons on other actlvltles related to land use
that may potentlally affect groundwater quallty.
CMA 039393
T
Tha federal government should contlnue to uslst states In the development
Guldance and technlcal asslstance
latlng land uses, hydrogeology and 50115 Hlth potentlal groundwater unpacts
K111 also 55515: stats and local government 1n maklng land use declslons where
necessary. CMA belleves the federal government should not 1nvolve Itself 1n
land use declslons.
c "qulfar mapping and 50115 1nfomatlon.
Where polnt source dlscharges to groundwater are not currently pemltted
under exlstlng regulatlons, states may choose to 1ncozporate a permit system
under thelr groundwater quallty protectlon progms to regulate dlscharges to
groundwater. Where a permit system 15 employed, cm endorses the use of pemlts
mm performanceﬁaased 11mm: and condltlons.
CMA
1
CMA 039394
T
energy commlttee annual report
1995 7 1995
PRESENTED
TO
THE 13mm: 01> DIRECTORS
01>
THE CHEMICAL mmmmmms ASSOCIATION
GARY s. FU‘RMAN
CHAIRMAN
SEPTEMBER 10, 1995
CMA 039395
mmouucnou
relatlve to other cm iSSuES, energy 15 not a major concern at
thls tune.
Crude all prices have dropped.
Fuel all prices
have remalned stable.
Natural gas prices have decllned.
The
supply of all. gas, coal and electrlclty 15 not a current
problem.
Under thls type of envlronment the Energy
Commltte®'5 charter "to ensure equal access at competitive
prices to supplies of feedstock: and energy" moves 1n the
dlrectlon of stewardshlp.
The meetlng schedule has been
reduced and we have worked to establlsh energyiorlented ad hoc
coalltlons as a cost effectlve means of promotlng cm energy
posltlons.
Desplte thls apparently benlgn energy envlronment, lssues
remaln that can unpact the chemlcal 1ndustry now and 1n the
future.
Comprehenslve gas leglslatlon 15 unllkely thls year but
some fom of gas leglslatlon may come up as an amendment.
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commlsslon (mum, has become
the battleground for key gas lssues not requlrlng
leglslatlon. such as transportatlon, prlclng, access to
supply, and establlshment of an 1nterstate competitive gas
market.
The government's search for addltlonal revenue contlnues,
thus the possibility of new energy taxes.
Efforts are under way to establlshi protectlonlst trade
barrlers for reflned petroleum products.
Tradltlonal costibased pricing of electrlclty 15 bemg further
challenged before the FERC 1n the proposed rule maklng for
electrlclty.
Increased government energy data collectlon 15 llkely.
I
CMA 039395
2
t
ORGANIZATION AND ISSUES 1995 7 1995
The Energy Commlttee was reorganlzed at 1:: June 20721 plannlng
meetlng to address the antlclpated energy lssues through four task
groups. Natural Gas, Energy Taxes, Petroleum and Technlcal Issues
whlch 1ncludes electrlclty, energy conservatlon and government
reportlng.
5
~ Natural Gas Issues
5
In the fourth quarter of 1934, cm successfully opposed
Congresslonal leglslatlon m reregulate natural gas.
Th1:
marked the last serlous leglslatlve effort 1n natural gas,
and no comprehenslve gas leglslatlon 15 llkely thls year.
There 15, however. always the rlsk of fragmented natural gas
leglslatlon as amendments to other mus. Since deregulatlon >
January 1, 1995 of approxlmately 50a of wellhead gas pricing
under the Natural Gas Pollcy Act, the battleground for gas
has shlfted to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commlsslon '
I
(mum. Because of the quasylegal atmosphere and the
assoclated high cost, cm establlshed procedures
for cooperatlve efforts mm other 1ndustrlal gas consumer
groups 1nvolv1ng the shared use of outslde legal counsel 1n
respondlng m a broad publlc 1nqu1ry by the Federal En rgy
Regulatory Commlsslon on natural gas transmlsslon and
pipeline ratemaklng. The FERC Hill declde thls matter
I
1n the fourth quarter of thls year.
Dbjectlves for 1995 7 1995
The am will contlnue to advocate leglslatlon whlch Hill
brlng about a free market and enhanced supply; 1.e.,
deregulatlon of wellhead Ceiling prices and removal of all
market restralnts. The major effort, however, will b
dlrected m FERC regulatory recom to enhance natural gas
market competltlon whlch by 1:: nature 1: dependent upon
equal access and transportatlon of natural gas supplies.
stake;
Assurance of natural gas as a source of energy and
feedstock: on a competitive price basls. Foster
Assoclates, a natural gas consultant, has conservatlvely
estlmated a posslble unpact of $.25/MMBTU or $750 million
per year on cm member companles from the pricing
provlslons of the current FERC Docket on regulatory refora >
of natural gas.
CMA 039397
3
Natural Gas Task Group Projects for 1995 7 1995 1nclude:
Contlnue partlclpatlon 1n FERC Docket No. M48571 on
natural gas regulatory reform, and develop cm responses
to subsequent related FERC actlons; partlcular attentlon
Will be glven to generlc or precedentisettlng lssues such
as equal access to all gas (partlcularly the Outer
Contlnental Shelf [ocs]7. Plpellne ratemaklng, and
curtallment priorities that may not be settled 1n Docket
Contlnue support for correctlng leglslatlve deflclencles
under the Natural Gas Pollcy Act and removal of
1ncremental pricing and prohibitions agalnst the use of
natural gas.
Coordlnate mm other trade groups and support approprlate
coalltlon actlons conslstent Hlth CMA'S posltlon and goals.
Energy Tax Issues
The cm 1n the flrst half of 1995 successfully opposed an
attempt to 1mplement an 011 import fee as part of th
federal budget deflclt reductlon package. The Energy
Commlttee provlded focus and technlcal support to th CMA
Tax Pollcy and Government Relatlons Commlttees durlng thls
campalgn. Congresslonal leaders, though dlvlded, hav
contlnued to demonstrate a wllllngness to conslder some
fom of energy taxatlon as a means to generate revenue
durlng the comlng year.
Dbjectlves for 1995 7 1995
Avold any new energyitaxﬁaased revenueﬂgeneratlng scheme.
If such a tax 15 1mposed, 11m: the 1mpact on energy and
exclude feedstock.
Stake: A tax of 55mm. on 011 has been estlmated by the
consultant mm of Data ResourceS, Inc.(DR17 to decrease
chemlcal productlon by at least 5: and ellmlnate 15,000
chemlcal jobs per year through 1990.
Energy Tax Group Projects 1995 7 1995 1nclude:
Malntaln the capablllty to analyze and develop respons s
m Varlous energy tax proposals and studles.
CMA 039399
4
~ Coordlnate Energy Commlttee analyses and recommendatlons
mm those of cm Tax Pollcy and Government Relatlons
Commlttees.
~ Carry the cm posltlon to approprlate dlvlslons and
agencles Within the Admlnlstratlon and to the Congress.
~ Coordlnate mm other trade groups, and support
approprlate Coalltlon actlon conslstent mm CMA'S
posltlon and goals.
Petroleum Issues
The cm posltlon 15 that market forces, as opposed to
price and allocatlon controls. are the most ffectlve
means to dlstrlbute petroleum products 1n the event of a
declared emergency. CMA'S posltlon prevalled 1n the
extenslon of the Strateglc Petroleum Reserve 15pm by
Congress.
The cm must be watchful 1n the comlng'year
that the development of regulatlons m unplement the
recent leglslatlon do not mbble away at the ﬁre market
concept.
In addltlon. protectlon from lowiprlced for 1gn unports
15 bemg sought by a coalltlon of mostly small reflners
through the unposltlon of import quotas and/or import
fees.
Dbjectlves for 1995 7 1995
The am will reslst any effort to modlfy Department of
Energy regulatory pollcy and procedure away from the
current free market concepts.
In addltlon. the CMA Hill contlnue to oppose efforts to
create addltlonal protectlonlst trade barrlers whlch
would ralse the cost of v. s. petrochemlcal raw
materlals above world competitive levels.
Stake:
Avallablllty of hydrocarbon raw materlals and fuels at
competltlve prlces.
Petroleum Issues Projects for 1995 7 1995 1nclud :
Malntaln liaison mm the DOE Cablnet Councll, Congress,
the Natlonal Petroleum Council, and related trade
assoclatlons.
CMA 039399
5
~ Develop responses on petroleum lssues conslstent mm
the cm posltlon.
~ Support approprlate Coalltlon actlons conslstent mm
CMA'S posltlon and goals.
Technlcal Issues
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commlsslon (FERQ 15
revlewlng electrlcal energy rate settlng for the
1nterstate grld 1n 1:: notlce of inquiry, FERC Docket No.
9517, Phase 1 and 2. The CMA jolned Hlth other trade
groups to advocate the contlnuance of cost of servlce
as the basls for rate deslgn.
Publlc hearlngs and rule
maklng are expected 1n the fourth quarter of thls year.
In addltlon. the Department of Energy plans to conduct a
survey of plant Manufacturlng Energy Consumptlon
(mcsy. The am has already testlfled and responded to
the Energy Infomatlon Admlnlstratlon 1mm proposals '
for 1:: mas survey as m burden, sensltlvlty of
1nformatlon. and 1:5 potentlal mlsuse. The EIA plans to
pursue a pilot survey 1n late 1995 and a full survey 1n
1935. 1: 15 the 1ntent of the EIA m use thls
1nformatlon 1n respondlng to energy plannlng initiatives
by branches of the government.
Dbjectlves for 1995 7 1995
The am will contlnue to seek cost of servlce as the
basls for electrlc rate deslgn.
In addltlon. the CMA Hill contlnue to oppose unnec ssary
energy reportlng.
Stake:
The FERC 1n Docket 9517 Hill conslder marglnal cost
pricing. & 0.11 per KWH 1ncrease 1n rates would cost
CMA companles $95 million per year (based on 1994 cm
membericompany usage of as bllllon kllowatt hours).
In completlng the mas survey, 1nd1v1dual plants could
1ncur up to 55,000 1n addltlonal reportlng costs. The
ElA's 1ntent to project energy usage from hlstorlc data
could give 1ncorrect concluslons when respondlng to
government inquiries such as allocatlon controls.
CMA 039400
a
Technlcal Issues Task Group Projects for 1995 7 1995
1nclude:
Malntaln technlcal liaison Hlth the Electrlclty
Consumers Resource Councll (ELcom and the Electrlc
Power Research Instltute 13mm.
Evaluate and recommend cm responses to posltlons taken
by ELCDN and EPRI.
Work through the Offlce of Management and Budget to
prevent or, 15 need be, modlfy the proposed EIA/MECS
survey.
Promote and support approprlate Coalltlon actlvlty
conslstent mm CMA'S posltlon and goals.
The effectlveness of the Energy Commlttee 15 the threat result of
the support derlved from the partlclpatlng mexnbepcompany
personnel. As Chalrman. I appreclate thelr talent and need th 1r
dedlcatlon to meet the objectlves set by the 1995 7 1995 Energy
Commlttee.
CMA 039401
upon 017 THE ENGINEERING ADVISORY COMMITTEE
TO THE CMA BOARD 017 ummmns
SEPTEMBER TD, 1995
Good mornlng. I'm dellghted to have thls opportunlty to talk a
llttle m: about the Englneerlng Advlsory Commlttee. Your program book
contalns our fomal report and I don't 1ntend to go over that 1n detall.
I Will use one or two speclflc examples from that report to lllustrate
some polnts I would llke to make and, of course, will do my best to
answer any
questlons 1: engenders 7 or questlons arising from anythlng
else, for that matter. But I would llke m edltorlallze a m: upon the
bare listing of speclflc actlvltles to leave mm you the followlng 1deas.
First, EAC'S major role, namely that of deallng Hlth codes and
standards. 15 an advocacy actlvlty. Although 1: 15 not the type of ad?
Vocacy you
Will read about Very often on the front page of the New York
Tunes, and
1: may or may not be deallngwlth a government entlty, 1: 15
nevertheless an advocacy not dlsslmllar m CMA'S maln thrusts.
The second 1mportant thought 15 that am 15 unlquely posltloned
to perform that advocacy. In dlscusslng thls polnt. I'd llke to take you
through the crlterla EAC uses 1n selectlng the tasks where that advocacy
15 an essentlal element and lead you to the flnal thought, namely, that
the EAC actlvltles have a high payout for a Very modest expendlture.
To those who are not close to standards actlvltles. 1: mlght
seem that settlng standards should be a stralghtforward technlcal job, or
pure sclence If you Will, about as controverslal as 2 + 2 4; that the
only problem should be m arrlve at the best technlcal solutlon to whlch
all ratlonal experts would readlly subscrlbei on, would that 1: were so
1: 15 perhaps approprlate to spend just a few mlnutes to refresh
our memorles on the general framework of the standards system. In the
U.s., standards are "Voluntary" or "consensus", although 1n many mi
stances one or more governmental jurlsdlctlons give them the force of law
after they are prepared 7 The Natlonal Electrlc Code 15 a classlc ex*
ample. As a Voluntary standard 1: represents good englneerlng practlce.
But all or parts of 1: have also been enacted 1nto law by Vlrtually every
local. state and federal governmental body 1nvolved Hlth the regulatlon
of Either constructlon or personal safety, ...from local bulldlng codes to
OSHA.
The umbrella organlzatlon for the Voluntary standards system Is
the Amerlcan Natlonal Standards Instltute. known as ANSI for short. ANSI
does not Hrlte any standards! What 1: does do Is oversee the consensus
process. When 1 2 deternrlnes there has been a reasonable opportunlty for
all 1nterested partles m Volce a contrlbutlon and that all Valld objerk
CMA 039402
2
tlons have been elther resolved or adjudlcated, 1: will "adopt" the
document as an ANSI standard. There are perhaps an or 40 thousand of
such ANSI Standards. of thesa. I would guess that somethlng 1n the range
of 5 m 7 thousand are of threat or indirect 1nterest to the chemlcal mi
dustry.
In addltlon. there are many standards of 1nterest that have
never gone through the "ANSIiflcatlon" process. Just to name one, the
standard of the Tubular Exchanger Manufacturer's Assoclatlon or TEMA,
whlch forms the backbone for most of the 1ndustry's shell and tube heat
exchanger purchases, remalns as a manufacturer's agreement, not ANSI
document.
How then do standards get 1nto the ANSI system?
There are
several acceptable procedures. The three most comnon are: m consensus
conmlttEE. 127 accredlted organlzatlon or m canvass.
The consensus
conmlttee approach was orlglnally predomlnant 1n the ANSI system.
In
usmg thls path, an adhoc commlttee 15 convened, 1nherently contalnlng
consensus, that 15, the conmlttee members are carefully selected to
represent partles of 1nterest...classlcally manufacturers, users, technk
cal experts, the publlc and any speclal 1nterests. The commlttee's out*
put 15 subjected to publlc comment, and when all negatlve comments have
been resolved. the document Is adopted as a standard. Many of our baslc
process 1ndustry englneerlng standards were developed 1n thls fashlon,
for example, 1331 Process Piping, BléiFlanges, 979 AYS pumps, etc.
However. thls mode 15 gradually shlftlng over to other toms. Major mi
put to the content of such standards must come prlmarlly from party
alpatlng on the worklng conmlttee. At the moment, CMA/EAC has only four
representatlves to such conmltteeS, so you can see we have been mghly
selectlve. Over the years, member company threat partlclpatlon has been
high In such actlvltles and 5:111 toms the backbone of chemlcal 1ndustry
input.
1: 15 only where member company threat partlclpatlon cannot
accompllsh the goals that CMA partlclpatlon 15 undertaken. Most often
thls occurs when only organlzatlons, not 1nd1v1duals or companles are
admltted m membershlp. I'll say more about thls subject a llttle later.
The second procedure recognlzed by ANSI 15 that of the ac*
credlted organlzatlon. Here ANSI certlfles that the procedures of the
sponsorlng organlzatlon provlde for achlevlng consensus.
Essentlal
elements Include publlc access to the work and requlres broad based com?
mlttee partlclpatlon, notlflcatlon requlrements, rlghts of appeal,
recordkeeplng, and mechanlsms to resolve any confllct. Many of our most
used standards are developed thls way, 1nclud1ng the ASME Boller and
Pressure Vessel Code and our favorlte example 7 the Natlonal Electrlc
Code whlch 15 under the aegls of the Natlonal Fire Protectlon Assoclatlon
CMA 039403
In many aspects 1: 15 dlfflcult m percelve the dlfferences
between the consensus coumlttee and the accredlted organlzatlon. Work on
the NEC for example 15 carrled out by 20 codeﬂ'naklng panels, each of
about 25 members plus an equal number of alternates. amine part1c1*
pate: on the 15 panels whlch most closely affect the chemlcal 1ndustry
125 total representatlves, provlded by member companles at member company
expenSE7. Code panel composltlon 1ncludes representatlon from equlpment
manufacturers, government offlclals, trade muons, technlcal socletles,
the bulldlng 1ndustry, contractors, consumer advocates, metal 1ndustr1es,
1nsulatlon manufacturers, other trade assoclatlons mmA, ETC): Vendors:
the utility 1ndustry and probably others I mlssed as I sklnmed the 115:.
The motlvatlons 1n such a dlverse group obvlously dlffer. There are many
opportunltles for honest dlfferences of technlcal opinion, based on the
dlverse perspectlves represented 7 that after all, 15 what the consensus
system 15 all about. But 1: 15 also posslble for pet 1deas, or even
speclal Interests. :9 be pressed beyond the polnt of justlflcatlon.
Just one example. At the last revlslon of the NBC, certaln
1nterests sought to 1nclude a requlrement for a motor dlsconnect sultch
physlcally at each motor 7 offerlng as justlflcatlon the safety of
persons worklng on the motor. For most users, thls 15 a matter of mi
dlfference. Not so 1n the process Industrles where such a local sultch
would normally have to be exploslon proof. 1: 15 CMA'S posltlon that
current tag and lockout procedures on remote dlsconnect devlces provlde
demonstrably adequate protectlon and that the proposal creates greater
safety hazards than the one 1: 15 Intended to correct. If the proposal
were adopted, we estlmated the cost to cm member companles at 40 MS/yr,
based on the then current rate of new constructlon. Although the amount
of new constructlon Varles, we observe that the normal tune 1nterval
between adoptlon of a
standard for safety appllcable only to new con*
structlon and the flrst Volce
of regulatlon suggestlng retroflt 15
generally measured In mllllseconds. In thls case, no estlmate of retro*
51: cost has been made.
One feature of the ANSI system, Intended to minimize obsole57
Genes. 15 that each standard must be revlsed or reafflrmed Within a 3
year 1nterval. The proposal on motor dlsconnects was turned back at the
worklng committee level for both the 1991 and 1994 Verslons of the mac.
Current actlvltles are
almed at the 1997 um. Once agaln the proposal
has falled sufflclent commlttee support for adoptlon (tle votey. Hovk
ever, thls tune appeal has brought 1: forth for publlc comnent, preparai
tory m a floor flght at the NFPA conventlon. The Immedlate task at hand
15 to encourage sufflclent "publlc" comment to lay the foundatlon for a
successful floor flght If 1: Is carrled that far. The electrlcal task
group Is currently organlzlng such a campalgn among member companles and
other sympathlzers. The NFPA membershlp assembled 1n conventlon Is the
CMA 039404
court of ultlmate appeal 1n so far as technlcal content of the NE: 15
concerned.
Although members of the NFPA are obvlously 1nterested 1n
safety, only a small percentage Will be technlcally versed 1n matters
electrlcal.
I trunk the parallels mm other forms of advocacy are
obvlous.
1: 15 also obvlous that a smgle declslon does not make a
threat go away. lee bad pennles, these thlngs keep comlng back and back!
In addltlon to the consensus commlttee and accredlted organk
zatlon modes of adoptlon, there 15 a mum In frequent use 7 the canvass
method. Here the document 15 prepared by nonirepresentatlve means, then
submltted for publlc comment and acceptance. All negatlves must be re*
solved.
Typlcal organlzatlons usmg thls approach 1nclude the Under?
wrlters Laboratorles, the API, and our old frlends, the Natlonal Board of
Boller and Pressure Vessel Inspectors. Most of the actlvltles from thls
source mun the exceptlon of the Natlonal Board) are less demandlng on
the commlttEE, per se, but do Impact on CMA staff. Contlnued part1c1*
patlon however. 15 a necessary prerequlslte to our credlblllty when
claiming to represent the chemlcal manufacturlng 1ndustry 1n other
matters.
Let me turn away from the ANSI tutorlal m the questlon of how
EAC selects 1:: tasks. In a Very few cases, only organlzatlons such as
CMA representlng 1dentlflable blocks of Interest Will have access. Here
obvmusly. If 1: Is worth domg, cm should do 1:. The option 15 absteni
tlon. There are only seven offlclal CMA representatlves (plus two alter?
nate57 1n such categorles.
I mentloned before that the major standards effort comes from
threat member company partlclpatlon rather than cm partlclpatlon. EAC
does attempt to track partlclpatlon In areas of Significant 1nterest and
malntaln an 1nformal liaison Hlth member company reps. Th1: contrlbutes
m a broader coverage and less redundant effort.
Where the tracklng Indlcates a lack of coverage In an area of
1nterest. we try to encourage some member company to 5111 the gap. 1:
was thls gap Identlflcatlon effort that some years ago spotted the fact
that there was no user Industry partlclpatlon on the NE: panels. In thls
Cass. the task was so complex that a more fomal response was judged to
be needed and a coordlnated effort was mounted whlch has been mghly
effectlve. The bulk of the effort Is 5:111 provlded dlrectly by member
company Volunteers. but wlthout the coordlnatlon avaliable only through
cm, the total Industry cost to partlclpate would have been much hlgher
and 15 unllkely to have been as effectlve. 119 companles, 1 member each
on T.G. 29 reps to Macy The strength of a well thought out, unified
1ndustry posltlon has been amply demonstrated.
CMA 039405
Just because 2 standard 15 used by the chemlcal 1ndustry does
not make 1: an issue. The EAC does not worry about, nor deal mm, the
dlmenslons of bolt threads. We don't care much about flanges so long as
the flange He Will buy next month will mate mm the one we bought last
month.
But 15 there 15 an effort at Significant change, as Hlth the
metrlcatlon thrust of a few years ago, even flange dlmenslons can become
a key issue. These "crlses" come and go.
The EAC relles prlmarlly on 1:: 1nfomal liaison mm member
company representatlves as well as 1:: own membershlp to surface the
problem areas whlch are approprlate for CMA attentlon. Approprlateness
15 measured by potentlal unpact on the 1ndustry and whether cm 15 needed
(as opposed to member company rep handllng the matter Hlth some
support7. The net result 15 the Very selectlve threat 1nvolvement by the
EAC mentloned beforE. but a much wlder behlndithe*scenes 1mpact Hlth both
indirect and threat savlngs out of proportlon to the modest budget.
I don't want to leave you mm the Impresslon that looklng at a
few standards represents the sum total of EAC actlvltles. Response to
pertlnent regulatlon and leglslatlon 15 a clear mandate. For example,
thls year we had expected two OSHA proposals on electrlc safety toplcs.
We were not dlsappolnted when they dldn't Issue but they will be
One of our concerns growlng out of several years of am
wrestllng Hlth the Natlonal Board of Boller and Pressure Vessel
Inspectors and the relatlvely satlsfactory outcome at the natlonal level
15 that the arena Hill shlft to the state level. The Natlonal Board 15,
after all, composed entlrely of senlor state level appolntees, and the
state capltals are thelr natural habltat. The EAC has been worklng mm
State Affalrs 01 Vlslan to attempt to work out. an effectlve early warnlng
system that Will be both comprehenslve and cost effectlve. A necessary
adjunct Will be the necessary backup and support to the local cm, 15 and
as requlred.
The EAC has for a number of years, sponsored a Computer User
Forum, at two year Intervals. These educatlonal sesslons In a rapldly
movlng technology have been extremely well recelved and are generally
selfisupportlng.
Th1: year. In partlal response to the Bhopal 1nc1dent, the EAC
undertook to conduct a 51mllar forum on Inspectlon and malntenance and
1nstructed a newly conned task group to focus on safety through 1n5pec*
tlon and malntenance procedures and technlques.
Th1: group will be
holdlng 1:5 mum meetlng next week, and seems well on the way to
creatlng an 1nformat1ve and constructlve sesslon.
CMA 039405
Fo the colnlng year, we plan:
to c ntlnue the programs already 1n place, especlally those
relat d to the NE: and the two forums planned.
We nee to contlnue to strlve for a comprehenslve and cost
effectl e mechanlsm for deallng mm state level regulatlon
of pres ure equlpment.
In preps atlon for the 5mm of regulatory leglslatlon that
1n the Ha e of Bhopal and later 1nc1dents now seems in,
evltablE, we need to posltlon the BAG :9 support the
Assoclatl most effectlvely. Some parts of thls can and
Will be un ertaken at EAC 1n1tlat1ve...for example, an mi
creased Int ractlon Hlth and support to the Safety and Health
Commlttee s ems approprlate. But the me, by the nature of
the subjects 1: deals mm and the normal worklng asslgnments
of 1:5 membe s, 15 essentlally a reactlve, not a proactlve
group. There re, the majorlty of lssues needlng attentlon
Hill necessar ly flow from the Assoclatlon to the EAC for
supportlng co trlbutlon and/or prune responslblllty.
Thank you for our tune and attentlon.
In thls expurg ted
Verslon of EAC ctlvltles I hope I've left you mm some key thoughts. '
e
The whole part1 1patlon In standards actlvltles Is closely
akln to more ob ous advocacy Inltlatlves
a
By careful selec lon of toplcs and leveraglng,
returns a hefty you: on funds expanded.
The EAC plays a c ordlnatlve role not replaceable by another
organlzatlon or t a member companles actlng 1nd1v1dually
the
EAC
And flnally,
a
That the EAC can an Will be responslve m the Assoclatlon's
needs In the comlng tunes.
Thank you.
CMA
CMA 039407
sound and costieffectlve.
o Superfund and 1:5 1mplementatlon contlnues m be a hlgh
prlorlty for the 5m and the chemlcal 1ndustry. Significant
progress 15 bemg made 1n CPA'S luvplementatlon of thls progm.
A contlnulng resource commltment 15 necessary to assure
contlnued reasonable and costieffectlve luvplementatlon of
Superfund. The BMC has addressed several key elements of
EVA'S Superfund unplementlng progm 11.5., revlsed natlonal
contlngency plan, natlonal prlorlty 115:5 updates), and CPA
guldance documents and KPA and am studles. We belleve our
efforts were helpful 1n assurlng that the natl nal contlngency
cm 039301
plan's clean up standard remalns flexlble. In llght of
antlclpated reauthorlzetlon and wendment of Suparfund thls
y««r, tha laval of cm Suparfund regulatory actlvlty Hill
r«aln high for tha naxt tavaral yaars.
mmsm CCMPANY PERSONNEL
Tha tachnlcal and lagal expertlse of some 294 paopla from 52 coalpanlas
15 currantly belng tappad m achlava tha goals of tha 2m. Compared
to ona yaar ago, tha numbar of member companles' raaourcas Voluntaarad
has 1ncraasad by 5.5 pareant. In addltlon, tha number of asslglwaats
undertaken by member company parsonnal has 1ncraasad alavan pareant.
Thasa flguras raflact a ganaral ascalatlon of laglslatlva and
ragulsto'Y actlon undar all tha anvlronaantal statutas. In addltlon,
thasa 1ncraasas damonstrata a contlnulng confldanca of mambar
cempanles that am cospeffecmvely advocatas unportant lssues and
posltlons of concern to the chemlcal 1ndustry. In tha naxt yaar, Ha
antlclpate 1ncraasad actlvlty on tha toxlcs alr omlsslons lssue and a
contlnulng hlgh level of actlvlty on all solld Vast: lssues,
especlally groundwater, RCRA unplementlng regulatlons, and suparfund
...attar5. Thasa 1ncraasad actlvltles Hill requlre a modest but
1ncraasad resource comltmant m achleve CMA'S goals.
om LEADER TRAINING
The most Valuable resource tha BMC and CMA have 15 the member company
Volunteers that partlclpate on our connlttee, 1:5 19 task groups, and
40 work groups. Tha me, 1:: 19 task groups, and work groups have
held approxlmately 24D formal cm meetlngs 1n tha past yaar. In
order to most affectlvely use these resources, tha BMC developed and
unplemented a leader effectlveness training progrm. The program
provldes the leaders baslcs on antltrust. cm organlsatlon, qla and
me rules and procedures, and prlnclples of meetlng leadershlp
effectlveness. Tha training "1nstructors* prlmarlly came from on
staff and or: members. Tha meeetlng effectlveness segment of the
course was developed for use by tha training department of BASF
Wyandotte Cozporatlon. To data, 51 parsons have partlclpated 1n tha
course.
BMC EDUCATIONAL woman:
one of the responslbllltles of tha Envlronmental Management Comsdttee
15 to help mambar companles understand thelr envlronmental responsy
billtles. The BMC has mat thls challenge by holdlng semkannual
anvlronuntal updates on all Significant CoBlttee actlvltles, and
conductlng other sasd.nars on major lssues on an as needed basls. In
“‘ha past year, the BMC has sponsored 2 updates and a semlnars on a
Wide spectrum of envlronmental lssues (1.e., groundwater treatment,
ACRA amentaents/RCRA compllance, water quallty basad permltsy. The
cm 039302
semlnars are routlnely open to all D<A and Chemlcal Industry Councll
members, and on a Cassibyicase baala opan to othar organlzatlons
11.5., soGMA, Amerlcan Patrolata Inatltuta. Utllltlaa Water Act
Group7.
cm STAFF PERSONNEL
Elght profasslonals and Elva support staff Bra asslgnad to tha
Envlronmental Dlvlslon. An addltlonal professlonal to manage the
speclally funded underground Injectlon Control project will be
retalned under contract. the Dlvlslon may need to expand 1:: support
resources to address the rapldly expandlng workload of the
Envlronmental Dlvlslon (1.e., solld waste progr«s, alr mxmsy and
5:111 handle the demand for cm servlces and m Eulflll the goals of
tha CcsBlttae.
(A detalled sumary of Corned, ttael 3 1995795 objectlves
other on staff worklng on ma actlvltles 1nclude the equlvalent
of three and one half attorneys from the Xlegal Department, three
professlonals from the GovernaMnt Relatlons Department, and asslstance
from the State Affalrs Dlvlslon and Communlcatlons Department, as
needed. Durlng the next year, we expect a need to malntaln thls level
of support from all other departments Hlthln CMA.
RESEARCH AND CONSULTING
The total M 94/95 budget for me research and consultlng projects was
set by the Board of Dlrectors at 9213.000. As the flscal year pro*
grassed. other comlttee funds beams avaliable and the actual EMC
expendltures totalled 9229.500 as detalled on pages 19 through
21. The research and consultlng budget approved for EMC actlvltles
for FT 95/95 1: 9350.000. Th1: flgure does not 1nclude unantlclpated
fundlng needs for lssues that arose or have slgnlflcantly escalated
after the fundlng process began. In llght of the 1ncreaslng level of
envlronmental actlvltles, noted above. the current budget may not be
adequate. 1: 15 llkely that some necessary projects can not be
addressed Within the exlstlng budget. In such 1nstances, the EMC will
request, on an as needed basls. supplemental fundlng.
woman OUTLOOK
As the Ft 95/95 year beglns, CMA and EMC are faclng contlnulng
challenges and sme new envlronaental lssues.
groundwater. RCRA land dlsposal ban regulatlons, drlnklng water
regulatlon5.7 To meet thls challenge, the 524: has programatlcly
modlfled 1:: methods of operatlons to enhance the role of the EMC
sponsors Hlth each task group, and EMC'S plannlng actlvltles.
EMC clearly deflnes task group 51x month objectlves, more actlve
partlclpatlon of EMC sponsors Hlth task groups, routlne pollcy
cm 039303
j....lopm......" reports by sponsors «t or: mattlngs.) In addltlon, tn:
0: has unplemented horlsontsl lssue management (1.e., «d hoe group
Mppsmung several task groups and/or standlng commltteesy 1n
jddltlon to ths tradltlonal functlonal (l.e., task groupy lssue
sanagasant.
1: v luvperatlve that as an Assoclatlon V5 develop forvardlng
thlnklng pollcles that allow ths 1ndustry to get 13 front on an lssue
so that V5 and up managlng the lssue rather than the lssue managlng
our llmlted resources. We have made progress 1n how we are vlewed by
me publlc. Congress, and DA, 1n that V5 are consldered a
constructlve factor on key eavlromental Issues (e.g.. Superfund,
ACM, surface watery. If the chemlcal 1ndustry 15 golng to contlnue
to be successful 1n 1:: advocacy before spa and Congress, 1: 15
...asentlal, more than ever. that V5 not only develop proactlve
posltlons but provlde spa and Congress the necessary alternatlves
...nd/or supportlng data. In thls regard, all levels of DA and
Congresslonal staffs contlnue to request 1ndustry data and/or
1nformatlon as part of the Congresslonal and regulatory development
process.
A meanlngful response by 1ndustry Hill requlre Significant member
company and staff resources. If we want to effectlvely advocate
posltlons before DA. we must contlnue to make thls resource
camltaent. Such efforts will result 1n llmlted regulatlons and/or
Mrs costieffectlve regulatlons for the chemlcal 1ndustry that also ,
Hill provlde a substantlally 1mproved envlronment.
'The he will be challenged durlng the next year to develop proactive
posltlons, to rsspond m the DA, and to adequately support
leglslatlve and judlclal lssues as they arlse. In thls regard, the
me Will need company coldltments of adequate resources to address new
regulatory and leglslatlve initiatives concernlng groundwater, alr
toxlcs. ACM wendsents 1mplementatlon. In addltlon, He Will need to
support 01A actlvltles concernlng posslble wendments to the Clean Alr
Act. and development of a new piece of groundwater leglslatlon. There
Will also be extenslve regulatory actlvltles to address on
luvplementatlon of all envlronmental statutes. Th1: actlvlty also
1ncludes posslble lltlgatlon related to luvplementatlon of the Clean
Water Act, Clean Alr Act, ACM. Safe Drlnklng Water Act and Superfuad.
Many envlronmental lssues addressed at the federal level will become
...ore luvportant at the state level and poaslbly at the 1nternatlonal
level. The me Will therefore be 13 e contlnuous process of sottlng
priorities and concentratlng our resources where they will have the
fastest llkellhood of posltlve 1mpact for the chemlcal 1ndustry.
am
am 039304
EXHIBIT 9
Report to CMA Board of Dlrectors
(3.17. Fort, Monsanto Company
Chalrman. CMA. State Affalrs Commlttee
September a, 1995
Good mornlng I am Garth Fort from Monsanto. My purpose today
to report on the State Affalrs Commlttee, whlch has the
responslblllty of servlng as the "watchdog for the chemlcal 1ndustry
j.nt rest at the state level."
Th1: commlttee was formed four years age, so we're 1n the same
posltlon as a polltlclan completlng ms flrst term 1n offlce and
runnlng for raielectlon on the record.
In the case of thls commlttEE, that record 15 a good one ....so
far.
The stakes have been hlgh at the state level.
Congress passes major envlronmental leglslatlon the Clean.
Water Act, Clean Alr Act, Resource Conservatlon and Recovery Act, Safe
Drlnklng Water Act, and "Superfund." But all of these are "mmmum
requlrements." and the states are permltted and even encouraged
to go farther.
Danlel Bean. writing for the "Pollcy Studles Journal,"
underscored the rising unportance of state governments. He 531d,
"They are no longer regarded as horse and buggy governments, as they
were 1n the 1960's and are comlng once agaln m be vlewed as
laboratorles of 1nnovatlon and democracy.
The Conservatlon Foundatlon has polnted out that
envlronmentallsts of a decade ago generally sought federal solutlons
to pollutlon problems. They now look frequently to the states,
recognlzlng that Washlngton has no monopoly on "envlronmental Virtue."
Examples are numerous. Callfornla regulatlons on hazardous
wastes were copled 1n last year's RCRA reauthorlzatlon. Callfornla
laws passed by Sher and Katz 1n 1993 and 1994 were models for the
present federal regulatlons of plts, ponds and lagoons. Very
recently, the League of Women Voters 1n1tlated a program on "Household
Hazardous wastes" focused at the local level. The effort qulckly
spawned twenty mus thls year at the state level, and promlses to
attract the attentlon of v.5. EPA, 15 not Congress. Even today, New
Jersey state leglslators are dlrectly affectlng the congresslonal
debate on "Communlty nghtitoiKnow and Catastrophe Preventlon."
cm means
Four years ago, as am responded to the 1ncreaslng unportance of
state lssues, they recognlzed the challenges.:
7 The polltlcal playlng Eleld 15 geographlcally spread over 50
states.
7 There are thousands of key players seventyiflve hundred
leglslators alone. Hlth staffers and executlve agency personnel
numberlng thousands more.
7 There are 250,000 mus 1ntroduced each year whlch could affect
our busmess.
7 Tlmlng for polltlcal actlon at the state level 15 measured 1n
days, not months or years, as 15 frequently the case 1n
Congress.
To meet these challenges cm developed a unlque program that 15
bull: on sound managerlal and polltlcal prlnclples:
Set priorities on lssues to make the most of llmlted
resources.
Get 1nvolved as early as posslble 1n the polltlcal process to
maxlmlze effectlveness.
Develop posltlon statements and supportlng arguments before
the lssue surfaces. to keep up mm the fast track polltlcal
Emphaslze local 1nvolvement for early alert and polltlcal
effectlveness. Those on the scene have the best chance of
knowlng what's developlng and polltlclans llsten best to
those who elect them.
To 1mplement thls program, a network of state chemlcal 1ndustry
counclls and trade assoclatlons was chosen to be the cornerstone of
CMA'S Eleld marketlng force to sell our posltlons on prlorlty lssues.
But 1: was clear that the network needed lots of support and
dlrectlon.
A5 Jim Murray reported last year, actlvltles were planned to
cultlvate that network by maklng CMA a focal polnt of 1nfomatlon
m
cm means
gathered from the collectlve natlonal resources of our 1ndustry. Many
us these actlvltles are well underway, and have truly turned cm
1nto a "Center of Excellence" for state lssues. Member company
personnel and state trade assoclatlons are routlnely turnlng to CMA
for advlce and guldance. Other 1ndustry trade assoclatlons llke
Amerlcan Petroleum Instltute and the Natlonal Agrlcultural Chemlcal
Assoclatlon are contactlng cm on mutually 1mportant state lssues.
Assoclatlons of elected offlclals llke Natlonal Governor's
Assoclatlon. Natlonal Conference of State Leglslators, Councll of
State Governments and even the Natlonal Assoclatlon of Towns and
Townshlps are turnlng m cm for 1nput on pollcy posltlons, agenda
1deas and speakers. These indications of success are gratlfylng, but
most 1mportantly, the "cm approach" has clearly helped produce
"bottom llne results" for member companles.
Our system was severely tested thls year and 1: worked.
lock at some speclflc results:
Let's
By June of last year, communlty rlghtitoiknow was targeted for
prlorlty coverage for the then upcomlng 1995 leglslatlve sesslon.
Drawlng on two years of experlence mm thls lssue at both the state
and federal levels. CMA staff efflclently pulled together a wealth of
1nformatlon... posltlon papers mm backiup arguments, Copies of all
prevlous state laws and regulatlons, and Copies of testlmony that had
been given before Congress and at the state level. In addltlon, CMA
State Affalrs Group held reglonal 1nformatlon semlnars on the subject
to educate members of the CIC'S network.
when Bhopal m: 1n December, the CMA State Affalrs organlzatlon
as a whole was well prepared for the unprecedented flood of state
runs that were promptly dumped 1nto the leglslatlve hopper, when the
dust settled thls year over 150 mm: on thls subject had been
1ntroduced 1n 40 states. and over 22 states passed some rlghtitoiknow
provlslons. State leglslators had developed new proposals to force
governmental control on our plants, and trled to move the lssue far
beyond the cm posltlon.
Although battles are 5:111 bemg fought 1n Callfornla, New Jersey
and Mlchlgan, to date all the laws passed thls year are generally
conslstent Hlth CMA pollcy. We have retalned our trade secret
protectlon rlghts and successfully avolded costly requlrements for
unlque labellng, envlronmental emlsslon monltorlng and 1ndependent
rlsk management aud1t3.
Publlc compensatlon was another prlorlty lssue where the results
were good. 1: was an actlve issue 1n Elva states Callfornla,
Massachusetts, New Jersey, Mlnnesota and Rhode Island. CMA'S posltlon
was that NO admlnlstratlve publlc compensatlon program was needed and
cm 039307
tort law should not be changed. The cm Pollcy Commlttee's marchlng
orders to the state troops 1n the Eleld were clear "Hold Pork (1th
cm staff and member company representatlves helped gulde the
strategy 1n these states. The mum? study results were effectlvely
used 1n conjunctlon mm expert testlmony provlded by personnel from
Centers for Dlsease Control. academla. the 1n5urance 1ndustry, the
legal professlon, and our own companles. We were successful 1n four
of the Elva states and marglnally successful 1n the new.
only Mlnnesota passed a publlc compensatlon mu whlch
establlshed an admlnlstratlve fund and 1: was Very llmlted 1n
scope. The Situation there was unlque 1n that local 1ndustry
supported the leglslatlon because 1: solved some severe 1n5urablllty
problems created by an earller 1993 Mlnnesota Superfund law.
The results on another prlorlty lssue state Superfund laws
also were good, we successfully prevented both the adoptlon of
unacceptable liability language and the 1ncluslon of provlslons for
personal 1njury compensatlon. State Superfund fees were held Hlthln
reasonable 11mm, although some 1ncreased slgnlflcantly.
am also played a role 1n preventlng further prollferatlon of
unlque state regulatlons of toxlc alr contamlnants. As an example,
Massachusetts has been slowed down 1n thelr effort to regulate 450
compounds 1n 51x months by shortcuttlng good sclence. Reason has
prevalled desplte Massachusetts' 1mpat1ence Hlth the federal
government for only promulgatlng regulatlons for 51x (57 hazardous
pollutants Since 1970.
Progress was even made 1n the transportatlon are cm helped
orchestrate the passage of a couple of more "Good Samarltan" laws
brlnglng the total to 34 states.
cm member companles took the lead 1n these cases. Our
preparatlon over the prevlous three years paid off, and our network
dellvered. But we can't rest on past success. The outlook for the
future 15 one of 1ncreaslng challenges.
Addltlonal releases of toxlc substances Since Bhopal contlnue to
erode our prlvllege of selfiregulatlon.
Instead of belng 1nnocent untll proven gullty, 1ndustry now can
look forward to trylng to justlfy 1:5 exlstence and 1:: Very rlght to
operate 1n the nelghborhood.
cm means
Cur challenge will be to prove that our operatlons will NOT
create a problem. The burden of provlng thls klnd of negatlve 15
llmlted only by reasonableness, as deflned by state authorltles whose
survlval 1n offlce depends on thelr response to polltlcal wlnds.
At the same tune the polltlcal cllmate 15
pollcy 15 turnlng the "spotllght" on state and
lssues groundwater regulatlon and toxlc alr
Will be handled prlmarlly by the states 15 the
deterloratlng, federal
local programs. Two
contamlnants control
when EPA announced 1:: groundwater strategy. 1: was quote
"based on tradltlon deeply lngralned 1n our legal and 1nst1tutlonal
hlstory. The states have and should contlnue to have fundamental
responslblllty for protectlon and management of the resource 1tself.."
States will be decldlng when and how much 1ndustry pays for
multkmllmn dollar programs related to:
7 Cleanlng up groundwater under exlstlng plant sltes.
7 Provldlng alternatlve sources of drlnklng water for the publlc.
7 Requlrlng retroflt capltal for exlstlng facilities to ensure
better groundwater protectlon.
States will malntaln the rlght to ban the use or sale of certaln
ehemlcal products 15 groundwater 15 threatened.
The story 15 slmllar for alr toxlc control. on June 4, Lee
Thomas announced a substantlally new approach for reduclng publlc
health rlsks from alrborne toxlc pollutants. Federal standards for
1nd1v1dual contamlnants will no longer be the prune tactlc for control
of air toxlcs.
EPA plans to provlde flnanclal asslstance for strengthenlng state
programs for control of air toxlcs from large polnt sources havlng
locallzed 1mpacts. We Will have to address the issue not 1n
Washlngton, but at the numerous locatlons where problems are felt to
exlst. No longer will states have to Halt for v.5. EPA to act before
they can requlre new emlsslon controls on "toxlcs," Tens, 15 not
hundreds. of mllllons of dollars for addltlonal emlsslon controls are
at stake.
Clearly, groundwater
of our top priorities for
1n January, our opponents
of the same lssues we had
and toxlc air contamlnant lssues Will be two
next year. In addltlon, when the bell rlngs
Will be back for the next round on several
last year.
cm 039309
sumpmm
Some have estlmated that by 1990 total state Superfund program
costs will exceed those of CERCLA as states tackle more abandoned
sltes not on the Natlonal Prlorlty L15: and pay more for longitem
51:5 malntenance.
nmavmimow
Our opponents will push for what they dld not get thls year
emlsslon monltorlng and 1ndependent audlts of our plant safety
programs.
PUBLIC commsnmu
Mlnnesota's actlon thls year will cause some states to play
catchiup. In addltlon, plalntlff lawyers Hill contlnue to push to
reduce "burden of proof... for chronlc health cases. Thelr Carrot 1:
hundreds of mllllons of dollars of court settlements.
HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL pmcmcgs
The push to phase out landfllls and deep wells will contlnue.
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE mmsponmuou ISSUE
PostiBhopal analysls of rlsks will focus on transportatlon of
hazardous materlals. Routlng restrlctlons and addltlonal fees will be
consldered.
Cur plannlng conference 1n June identified these as prlorlty
lssues and we have establlshed some speclflc objectlves m unprove our
effectlveness 1n tackllng them:
7 Expand our computerlzed early alert and 1nformatlon network to
unprove staff productlvlty.
7 Setter use of publlc relatlons or advocacy communlcatlon at
state level.
7 Establlsh twoiway "electronlc mall" capabllltles Hlth key
chemlcal 1ndustry counclls to better meet thelr needs.
Our actlon plans for next year remaln conslstent mm the
orlglnal premlse of the CMA State Affalrs Program. Baslcally, we
target to do what we do better.
cm 039310
Last year, Jim Murray stood before you to ask for addltlonal cm
staff support for the state program. You responded, and I trunk the
results speak for themselves“. The team has performed. on behalf of
everyone who was out there 1n the trenches, I want to borrow a slogan
used by the Unlted Way a cogple of years age, and say "Thanks to
We have bull: a natlonal network that 15 stronger than any one of
us could have done on our own. By leveraglng our posltlon, we have
produced Very good returns on our rather llmlted 1nvestment.
The cm State Affalrs effort needs your contlnued support next
year 1n four baslc areas:
Malntaln cm staff support at the same level as last year.
Provlde addltlonal actlve member company personnel to serve
on state cm task groups establlshed for the prlorlty lssues.
Support Stats trade assoclatlons and chemlcal 1ndustry
counclls Hlth dues and experlenced people. 3111 wood
will expand on thls request 1n ms presentatlon, whlch
follows.
Involve senlor chemlcal 1ndustry executlves 1n state matters
Hlth follow up provlded by local personnel.
mm your contlnued support 1n these areas, cm State Affalrs
Commlttee should do an even better job next year as the "watchdog for
our 1ndustry at the state level."
am
am 039311
c
exhlblt :1
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
sum: CHEMICAL ORGANIZATIONS STATUS REPORT
BACKGROUND
Durlng the past several years, there has been 1ncreaslng 1nterest 1n the
status. programs and collectlve capabllltles of the Varlous organlzatlons
representlng the chemlcal 1ndustry at the state level. These organlzatlons
1nclude state chemlcal assoclatlons, state chemlcal Industry counclls (CICsy
and chemlcal 1ndustry commlttees of state manufacturers assoclatlons. In
addltlon, there has also been 1nterest expressed concernlng how the evolvmg
state and local Involvement of CMA 51:5 Hlth the exlstlng programs, pr10r*
itles and Capabilities of the state organlzatlons.
mnmnou DE WORK snow
To meet thls need, an ad hoc work group was assembled, composed of
member company state and publlc affalrs professlonals who both 1nd1v1dually
and through the cozporatlons they represent had played a key role 1n the
development and evolutlon of state organlzatlons around the country.
osmcmws
The work group identified the followlng objectlves for thls report:
Prepare a comprehenslve status report on the current
objectlves, structure. flnances, programs, plans and needs of
the Varlous state organlzatlons,
Assess the collectlve current resources and Capabilities of
the 19 state organlzatlons.
. Draw some concluslons about the overall operatlon of the state
groups, identifying partlcularly those elements whlch make
successful cm programs successful and those elements whlch
inhibit success.
Develop and communlcate recommendatlons for both cm and
member company actlons relatlve to 1mprov1ng and supportlng
the state organlzatlons and thelr exlstlng mlsslons.
The followlng were clearly not the objectlves of the report:
Evaluate or judge the performance of any 1nd1v1dual state
organlzatlon.
Assess or develop an overall CMA program for expanded
Involvement at the state and local level. Th1: could follow,
however. based on thls group's report and utlllzlng a
broaderibased range of Interest and expertlse.
cm 039312
2
PERSONAL smwm 0F sum: ORGANIZATIONS
In order to carry out 1:: objectlves, the group developed a survey whlch
sought 1nformatlon and opinion from and about each organlzatlon 1n the
followlng areas: organlzatlon (1nclud1ng structure, fundlng, stafflng and
member parumpauom, lssue coverage, advocacy programs (leglslatlve,
regulatory, publlc/medla communlcatlons, educatlon, grassroots, stay, commui
nlcatlons and lmageﬁaulldlng actlvltles, and future plans and needs, the
group personally 1ntervlewed a range of 1nd1v1duals 1n each state to seek
thelr input, and thls materlal was then complled and analyzed by the work
group. Summarles of the state surveys are contalned 1n the full report and
are presented 1n chart form followlng thls Executlve Summary.
CONCLUSION mom smwm
Drganlzatlonal Classlflcatlon. The 19 state organlzatlons may
be classlfled 1nto four organlzatlonal categorles:
Needs for CICs. In states of prlmary 1mportance, the chemlcal
1ndustry needs to have a network of strong CICs (elther 1ndependent
or afflllated mm other state busmess assomamonsy mm multlple
Capabilities to achleve not only the prlmary goal 1n each state
whlch 15 mlnlmlzlng 1napproprlate leglslatlon, but also the
natlonal goals of the chemlcal 1ndustry as well whlch 1nclude:
Independent, Hlth an all Volunteer effort.
(Alabama and
Delaware7
Independent, largely Volunteer, but Hlth a parpmme staff,
consultant and/or lobbylst.
(Pennsylvanla, Florlda, Michigani,
Illlnols. Mlssourl7
Afflllated Hlth state trade assoclatlcn, utlllzlng prlnclpally
trade assoclatlon staff, but may have own parnume staff,
consultant. or lobbylst.
(New York, Connectlcut. ohm.
Tennessee, Kentucky, West Virginia, Massachusetts)
Independent mm one or more fullitlme staff members, together
Hlth a multkcommttee structure responslble for 1nd1v1dual
programs.
(Texas, Louisiana, New Jersey, Callfornlay.
Unlfomlty 1n state leglslatlon/regulatlon
Avoldance of bad precedents for Federal leglslatlon
Support for Federal Grassroots Program
Support for Reglonal Communlcatlons efforts on natlonal lssues
Support for CAER/NCRIC programs and any other 1ndustry
initiatives whlch requlre local luvplementatlon or support
Programs and Capabllltles. Collectlvely, the 19 state groups
represent a broad spectrum of programs and capabllltles. mule a
few can be deemed fully functlonal organlzatlons mm multlfaceted
programs, many are 5:111 seeklng thelr 1dent1ty or are otherwlse 1n
3 state of transltlon or growth. 1: 15 also unportant m polnt out
that many 5:111 see thelr role restrlcted almost entlrely m threat
leglslatlve and regulatory advocacy. Much progress has been made
1n the last Elva years, and more will follow mm the proper
leadershlp, member company comltment and the allocatlon of
sufflclent resources.
cm 039313
3
Budget and Flnances. The budgets and dues structures of the
Varlous state organlzatlons Varles enormously from state*toistate,
Hlth the budget range bemg from $0 to over $500,000. Th1: Varlance
can be somewhat mlsleadlng Since 7 groups operate afflllated Hlth
state manufact rers assoclatlons to whom they pay dues separately.
However. 1: 15 accurate to say that Hlth the exceptlon of four
states (Texas, Louisiana, New Jersey and Callfornlay, the rest of
the state orga lzatlons generally operate on budgets of well under
$100,000 per yar. The bulk of the resources are not provlded by
threat dues. in t are contrlbuted 1n the form of member company
personnel and xpertlse. Dues are generally based on a flat fee,
plus surcharge for addltlonal facllltles and number of employees.
Elements whlch Contrlbute to Successful cm Programs.
followlng were 1dent1£1ed:
The
Strong commltmnt by senlor management of major companles mm
the largest 1n state presence and resources.
Broad part1c1p.tlon by chemlcal Industry companles represented
1n that state 1th human as well as flnanclal resources com?
mltted to the rogram.
Strong quallta 1Ve and quantltatlve cm staff support 7 full
or parnume l-bbylst, executlve dlrector “manufacturers
assoclatlon st.ff located 1n the State Capltol.
Member company support of an equltable fee structure whlch
generates suffclent revenue to operate a meanlngful program.
Strong program do not seem to be serlously affected by
economlc down: rns.
Focus on stron leglslatlve or leglslathe/regulatory programs
mm the goal .emg to make a meanlngful Impact on the publlc
pollcy process.
Recognltlon of the cm as the prune resource on "our lssues....
Strong worklng relatlonshlp Hlth CMA and other key allled
1ndustr1es an the ability to deal effectlvely Hlth the
opposltlon.
Member compan satlsfactlon and the degree to whlch they feel
they are beln adequately represented 1n the leglslatlve
process.
Where approprlate, strong affiliation Hlth the state manufac*
turers assoc1.1on.
Access to poll leal actlon commlttee resources
Strong grassr-ots program (ACIT).
Elements whlc Prevent cm Programs from bemg Fully
Effectlve. Th.follow1ng elements were 1dent1£1ed as factors whlch
may prevent 1 dlvldual programs from bemg fully effectlve:
Lack of suffllent chemlcal 1ndustry representatlon 1n the
state.
Lack of comm an: by key 1nistate companles.
Lack of techn cal expertlse/speclallzed resources bemg made
avaliable.
Geographlc 5p sad of members 1n the state 7 dlfflculty 1n
gettlng m Caltal easlly/frequently.
cm 039314
4
Lack of adequ.te fundlng or an otherwlse flawed dues system
whlch lacks m-mber support.
Lack of stron retalned leadershlp/staff servlces.
Lack of agree an: on common/prlorlty goals and effectlve ways
to meet those goals.
Negatlve med1./1mage of the 1ndustry 1n the state.
Inablllty m etwork or work mm other busmess organlzatlons
and CMA.
Credlblllty a d mllltancy of the "other slde" 1n the state.
comnrsou wIH 0mm MANUFACTURING mnus-mms' STATE pmamms.
The CMA/CIC Ntwork approach was compared and contrasted to the
programs oper.ted by the tobacco 1ndustry and the petroleum Industry.
The CMA/CIC pogram was determlned m be Increaslngly effectlve at a
cost of about onsielghth of the AF]: or Tobacco Instltute approach of a
large central zed program.
RECOMMENDATID s
The followlng recommendatlons for cm and 1:: member companles were
developed basd upon the survey, 1ntervlews and work group dlscusslons.
These recome datlons are deslgned to enhance the state chemlcal
organlzatlons ability to carry out thelr present mlsslons, the prlmary
(and 1n some ass: exclusmey one belng state leglslatlve and regulatory
advocacy. To he extent the 1ndustry's priorities for these
organlzatlons change or slgnlflcantly evolve, a further examlnatlon and
some addltlon.l actlons and recommendatlons Will be requlred.
cm Actlons
Under current clrcumstanceS, the nature of the organlzatlonal
relatlonshlp etween cm and the 1nd1v1dual state chemlcal
organlzatlons should remaln as 1: 15, rather than move toward
the AP]: appro.ch of 1ntegrated state petroleum counclls funded
and staffed d rectly by the natlonal organlzatlon.
cm prlorltle should be on strengthenlng exlstlng CICs rather
than creatlng new ones at thls tune. CMA should carefully
conslder how he Industry should be collectlvely represented
1n those stats wlthout CICs and where there 15 a dlstlnct
chemlcal Indutry lssue whlch Will not be adequately addressed
otherwlse. Spclflcally, should resources be made avaliable
to have a CMA state lobbylst on a retalned basls where
clrcumstances warrant?
cm should 51 ocate funds to help flnance speclflc projects or
operatlons of state chemlcal counclls on a seed money/matchlng
grant program to 55515: 1n gettlng new or expanded operatlons
gomg. Such g ants for projects or expanded operatlons should be
for a llmlted tune and made under speclflc crlterla and standards.
cm 039315
5
The focus of uch CMA fundlng should be on supportlng those
programs and rlorltles of the chemlcal 1ndustry whlch are of
1nterstate an natlonal Significance. Fundlng for ongolng
programs and or lssues and projects primarily of 1ntrastate
Interest shoud contlnue m be funded dlrectly by the member
companles of ash state organlzatlon. Slmllar funds currently
provlded thro gh the cm communlcatlon program to help 1n1tlate
lssue*or1ente communlcatlon projects at the state level also
have value an should be contlnued.
cm should so tlnue and renew 1:5 efforts to bulld a stronger
overall relatonshlp between CMA and the 1nd1v1dual CICs so
that am and he CICs can better utilize each other's capablli
1t1es. Speclfcally, cm should;
Increase 1:5 -fforts to provlde technlcal/sclentlflc/
legal support to the CICs on the state aspects of key
chemlcal Indutry Issues.
Contlnue to -Vote adequate resources to 1:5 ongolng
Internal stat- affalrs and communlcatlons programs whlch
provlde dlre support to state cm efforts.
Provlde contl lung support to 1ncrease membershlp and
actlve part1 patlon 1n the CICs and should contlnue to
seek ways to Increase the Visibility of the efforts of
the CICs Hit senlor management.
Contlnue eff-I ts 1n worklng Hlth other natlonal busmess
assoclatlons -n state level cooperatlon and coordlnatlon.
Examlne optl- s for developmg more equltable and unlform
methods for a ndmg cm operatlons.
Fund and con ct leadershlp and training workshops for
CI: staff an key member company Volunteers 1n leadershlp
posltlons 1n he CICS.
Member Comps . Actlons
Top down cororate 1nvolvement by senlor chemlcal 1ndustry
executlves 1 state government affalrs generally and 1n cm
actlvltles seclflcally. They need to make effectlve CH1: 3
prlorlty 1n helr organlzatlons by:
Joining wher- they manufacture or otherwlse
have an Inteest
Provldlng adquate flnanclal resources
Provldlng th rlght klnd of people to support
the effort
Maklng corpoate technlcal resources avaliable
Top down per-onal support and Involvement by senlor chemlcal
Industry exe-utlves 1n state matters, partlcularly leglslatlve
cm 039315
a
advocacy. Inlvlduals In Each corporatlon naad to selectlvely
lnvolva senlr executlves In these Issues. Th1: Hill Increase
corporate aw.reness of the serlous nature of the state Issues
and Hill 31: Increase changes for leglslatlve success.
Member comps 1e: should asslgn an Indlvldual overall responi
Slblllty for State Affalrs for the cozporatlon.
Member comps 1e: should brlng cm staff/leaders to corporate
headquarters for brleflngs on key state Issues.
Actlon Requled
Member comps 1e: should conslder Indlvldual actlons based upon the
member comps y recommendatlons 1n the report. CMA should evaluate
the 1nd1v1du.l cm recommendatlons In the context of 1:: 1995/95
budget and pogram revlew process.
am
am 039317
1
STATS emwny KSSULTS
SUMMARY CHAR
STATE ORGAN]: ATIDNS
AIlImm Chemlal Assoclatlon
Chtalctl Indstry Councll
of Callfornl.
State
Ranklng
1n
Value of
Shlpnenta
Independent
or
Afflllated
Drganltatlon
Number of
Members
Budget
Publle
Relatlons/
Communlcatlo 5
Program
Staff
Cover raven:
Relatlons
Program
None
Ves (not war
actlve7
No
Ho
educatlon
Pramjrs"
20
Independent
Independent
57
2mm, nun
1 12 Profess onals.
1 secretary)
Ves
Yes
Yes
Ho
Ho
5.0m
Chemlcal Af-alrs Group
Connectlcut EA IA
22
Afflllated 1th
Industry Asoc.
25
None
None (utllle cam stain
Yes
cm of Dela are
27
Independent
17
None
None
Ho molds lg
d1 nnerey
Florlda am
Is
Independent
20
25,000
Ratalned la flre
Yea
No
Ho
4
Independent
50
...7n.nnn
Partitlme B.Se. Dlr.
Partitlme Lubbylst
Ves
Yes
Ves
Afflllated 1th
AIK
54
None
Mona (utllle AIK staff)
Ves
Ho
Ho
Independent
an
400.000
5 14 profeslonals.
2 secretansy
Ves
Yes
Yes
None
None (utllle AIM staff)
vs:
No
Ho
vs:
vs:
cm of 111 015
Chenlcal :- mlttee of Assocy
ated Indus 1a: of Kentucky
Loulslana .. enlcal Assoclatlon
19
Ho (holds
press lune eonsy
Ho
Chenlcal Afalrs Group of
Assoclated Indus. of Mass.
24
Afflllated Hlth
AIM
19
Michigan c enlcal Councll
11
Independen-
17
90,000
Assoclatlo Hgmt Flrm a
retalned 1." flrm
Yes
cm of Mls-ourl
19
Independen-
21
25,000
Partitlme ass. Dlr.
retalned 1." flrm
Ves
cm of New Jersey
2
Independen
94
199.000
1 12 profeslonals.
1 secretar 7
Yes
Alllance o Chenlcal Indus*
trles of ﬂu York State
T
Afflllated Hlth
mm:
40
40.000
Retalned l-bby15t7 also
utilise Nv-c staff
Yes
ohm Chenl 51 Councll
s
Afflllate Hlth
014A
52
50,000
Partitlme l-aec. Dlr.
Ves
Yes
Yes
Pennsylva 13 cm
9
Independe t
19
50,000
Retalned obbylst
Ves
Ho
ND
Chenlcal Industry Connlttee
of Tennes-ee Hfge. Asroc.
am 03331.
Teres Che leal Councll
Chenlcal ndustry Connlttee
of Heat v rglnla Hfgs. Assoc
9
1
15
Afflllatem Hlth
TMA
10
Independe t
Afflllate Hlth
MVMA
Hone
None (utl 11s ma staff)
95
551, nun
19
None
Chenlcal rogre 55
Week
Ves
Just begl mm;
vs:
Ho
7 Stafff ’ Consultants
vs:
vs:
Mona (utlllze KVMA 5mm
vs:
vs:
vs:
Ho
Ho
Yes
Ho
Attachme t
EXHIBIT .
r
EXHIBIT .
REPORT 0- THE GOVERNMENT RELATIONS COMMITTEE
TO THE BIARD OF DIRECTORS
Septembe. 9, 1995
EXECUTIV' SUMMARY
*ij1n11.tlonal
Early setlons of the report of th« Government Relatlons Commlttee are
”Voted m 1:: rolE. membershlp and organlzatlon. The cosnlttee 15 the focal
59151: c the coordlnated Federal leglslatlve actlvltles of the chemlcal
1ndustry Through the cooperatlve efforts of a mghly professlonal communlty
01 Washlgton representatlves, the Coonlttee provldes a servlce whlch offers to
21A and ts Varlous program elements;
monltorlg of key lssues;
advlce drlng pollcy maklng;
leglslat Ve strategy development
and poll leal analysls;
threat lglslatlve communlcatlons
programs
Where th 1mportance of lssues has dlctated the fomatlon of a task group
or appol tment of a Commlttee Reyman, the staff executhe/support functlon 15
provlded by a member of the professlonal staff of the CMA Government Relatlons
Departme t.
gpaclal ctlvltles
A sectlo descrlbes events such as the CMA Brieflng Breakfast and the
CHEMICAL mum Luncheon serles almed at promotlng 1ntaractlon between 1ndustry
Washlngt-n representatlves, encouraglng partlclpatlon and keeplng them abreast
of devel-pments on current lssues. Several klnds of 1nfomatlon and
coordln.1ng servlces are also detalled.
Graser- 5
A sectl-I descrlbes the contlnulng prlorlty effort toward a coordlnated
1ndustr grassroots system to bulld local 1nfluence 1n Congresslonal
declslo making.
5
Issues .nd Actlons
A sectl-n provldes a serles of reports by task group chalrmen and kaymen
on unpotant lssues whlch occupy the attentlon of the Government Relatlons
Commltte. These lssues rtprssent the work product on whlch thls commlttee
provlde overall leglslatlve servlce and leadershlp for CMA advocacy. Also
1nclude are a 115mm; of recent CMA Congresslonal testlmony.
”"dittte 1994795 Dbjectlves and Progress
A sectln reports on three areas on whlch the Commlttee has placed
...spha-15;
a focus on the management of prlorlty lssues,’
llnklng leglslatlve and communlcatlons efforts;
and:
cm nae 19
EXHIBIT E
ADMINIS mum's 1995 TAX REFORM PROPOSAL
REPORT m CMA PosITIoNs AND ACTIONS
BACKQtD ND?
on May a, Presldent Reagan announced his 1995 tax reform
program
In gene 51, the Presldent's program would shlft almost $40
bllllon of the Federal 1ncome tax burden now borne by 1nd1v1duals to
busmes taxpayers. Wlthln the busmess sector, the Presldent's
progra would substantlally 1ncrease the tax burden of busmesses that
are cautal 1ntenslve and that engage 1n Significant 1nternatlonal
trade. lthough the unpact of speclflc provlslons may Vary from
compan to company, the overall unpact of the Presldent's tax program
would "st the chemlcal 1ndustry more than 52.5 bllllon annually.
The Pr. 1dent's program provldes for a reductlon 1n the maxlmtan
cozpor. a tax rate from 45 m 33 percent. In addltlon, 1: provldes
for a eductlon 1n computlng corporate 1ncome taxes of 10 percent of
dlvlde d5 pald. Offsettlng these reductlons, the Presldent's plan
would speal the 1nvestment tax credlt, replace the ACRS depreclatlon
system Hlth a less favorable capltal cost recovery system, and replace
the pr-sent mmmum tax Hlth a new mmmum tax on corporate 1ncome.
Beglnn ng 1n 1935, Significant new recapture rules would apply to
taxpay-rs who took depreclatlon deductlons of $400,000 or more 1n the
perlod January 1, 1980 through July 1, 1935. Under these new rules,
40 parent of the excess depreclatlon clalmed for tax purposes over
that a lowed for earnlngs and proflts (less a $300,000 overall
.deduc mm would be recaptured at postilgﬁs corporate tax rates.
Thus. apltal 1ntenslve taxpayers who used the 1ncent1ves for capltal
format on 1n Presldent Reagan's 1991 tax program would be subject to
Slgnlf cant tax 1ncreases over the next three calendar years.
The Prsldent's tax program also proposes Significant changes 1n
the ta atlon of 1nternatlonal actlvltles of v.5. corporatlons. The
progra would impose a more restrlctlve per country llmltatlon on the
use of the forelgn tax credlt and would ellmlnate the old and
established "tltle passage" test for detesnlnlng the source of 1ncome
from t a sale of property, 1nclud1ng the export of manufactured
produ s. The proposal 1ncludes strlngent new rules on the allocatlon
of 1nterest expenses among Within the members of a consolldated group.
Slgnl-lcant reductlons 1n tax beneflts are also provlded for
5::th tles 1n v.5. possesslons, notably Puerto Rico.
In ge eral. Democratlc and Republlcan Congresslonal leaders have
suppoted the broad objectlve to pass tax recom leglslatlon thls
year. The Admlnlstratlon and Congresslonal leaders have also agreed,
for t a moment, that the objectlves of tax reform should be
acco llshed 1n leglslatlon that nelther 1ncreases nor decreases the
flow ms tax revenues to the Federal Government.
cm p 05mm DEVELOPMENT AND RESPONSE
In No ember. 1934, the Tax Pollcy Cpmmlttee 1dent1£1ed several
major tax lssues that are of contlnulng concern to the chemlcal
1ndus ry. Subsequently, the Treasury Department proposed major tax
refo s that would affect many of these subjects.
At th Board's January meetlng. Commlttee Chalman Willlam M.
Bell. y, Jr. reported that the Tax Pollcy Commlttee was developmg a
serle of speclflc lssue responses to the Treasury's tax reform
prop- 315 that could be 1ncorporated 1nto a CMA leglslatlve statement.
In M- , Mr. Bellamy dellvered a progress report to the Executlve
(Iowa ttee and noted that the Tax Pollcy Coanlttee would request that
am .ommssmn 1ndependent studles for use 1n CMA'S tax leglslatlve
progam.
cm ommlssloned Prlceﬂ‘laterhouse to conduct a study of effectlve
tax ates 1n the ehmslcal 1ndustry. Also, cm provlded a grant to the
Inst tute for Research 1n the Economlcs of Taxatlon many to study
the mpact of selected tax refon proposals on the fomatlon of
capl 51 1n the chemlcal 1ndustry. In July, the Tax pollcy Coanlttee
deveoped a CMA leglslatlve statement on the Admlnlstratlon's tax
progam Vftllch was presented to the House Commlttee on Ways and Means
by D-xter F. Baker. Presldent, Alr Products and Chemlcals. Inc. At
1:: ugust 13 and 14, 1995 meetlngs, the Tax Pollcy Commlttee and am
Tax Leglslatlve Task Group establlshed priorities mm respect to
maj-r tax lssues of chemlcal 1ndustry concern and approved 1n concept
1:: plan for leglslatlve actlon.
Att.ched 15 a brlef summary of CMA'S posltlon on tax reform
leg slatlon.
ACT out
For 1nfomatlon only.
a A 039322
r
EX IBIT F
suerfund status report
Lelslatlve Revlew
By Walls Denyes, Eastman Kodak Company
a. se Energy and Commerce Commlttee/ on July 25, reported the Superfund
a -. 2317. The mm was approved by a Vote of 31 to 10, mm one member
N-tlngi Th1: Vote occurred after 51x long days that 1ncluded many emotlonal
"mates on the lssues. The substance of the orlglnal bkpartlsan compromlse mu
etalned. The mm as reported has been judged by CMA'S technlcal groups to
Ha reas- able, although 1: substantlally 1ncreased the programs and authorlty over
preset 1-H.
Followl . 15 a brlef 115: of key lssues that were consldered and the Votes
whlch m-Ior and damaglng changes were rejected:
Mandato ; clean up schedules.
Far more strlngent standards of clean up, even greater than mlght
he needs to protect health and the envlronment.
Requlre -nt that prlvatejoarty clean ups be more strlngent than
cumin .nced clean ups.
Requlrl . that all clean up settlements contaln a reopener clause
thus pre entlng flnal release from liability to be granted.
Remove 1 nuts of llablllty and create jolnt and several liability 1n
the Lea ng Underground Storage Tanks Program.
Expand t e rlghts of cltlzens m brlng 5m: agalnst owners of waste
dlsposal sltes 1n Federal court 15 there may be an 1m1nent or
substant 31 endangement.
Creatlo of 3 Hazardous Substance 1nventory as part of the Communlty
nghtit- Know provlslon.
In the -use, Superfund debate now moves to the House Publlc works and
Transpo atlon Commlttee. Subcommlttee Chalrman Robert Row (Drum has had
the Sta 5 worklng through the August recess preparlng for early September markup.
Envlro -ntallsts have been urging the commlttee m begln debate usmg the
orlglna Florlo b111, whlch was rejected by the Energy and Commerce Commlttee.
ma has ecommended the Commlttee begln from 3.x. 2917.
The Hou- Ways and Means Commlttee has tentatlvely scheduled markup for
E&rLy S.tember. In addltlon, both the House Judlclary Cosanlttee and the
Merchan Marlne and Flsherles Counlttee have been granted jurlsdlctlon of the
Au. Th1 means that Elva major commlttees of the House will have consldered
auperfu - before 1: goes to the Rules Counlttee and 1: 1: brought to the House
...door, as a result. flnal passage 15 unllkely before September an and thus some
CMA nae 3
lapse m-L wall occur 1n the taxlng authorlty. A an or aniday dalay should enable
Congres to complete flnal actlon before the end of thls year.
1n the -nate. the Superfund b111, s. 51, was not brought to the floor before
the Aug t recess began as had been predlcted. Delays occurred prlnclpally
because Senators Domenlcl mium and Slmpson “Fwy, wanted
to perf-ct
amendme s deallng mm liability and 1nsurance lssues. These and a host of other
amendme s are expected to be consldered whlle Superfund 15 on the Senate floor 1n
Septemb-r.
CMA
CMA nae 24
EXHIBIT G
TABLE 0 comst
upon IF THE mmsnmm
Assocla lon lssues and Program Report
Me
ADVOCACA ovmwmw
1
1
2
3
3
ISSUES w u woman STATUS
111.
Governmnt Control of Chemlcal Productlon/Innovatlon (TSCA7
4
a
9
10
12
13
15
17
19
20
25
27
29
an
an
35
39
DEPART IlNTAL woman HIGHLIGHTS
40
41
41
42
42
CMA
CMA nae 25
r
upon -F THE mmsnmm
ASSOCIAIDN woman AND 155% upon
A1
ADVOCAC ovmwmw
Congres-
The Pre-ldent's offenslve to hold the llne on federal spendlng, fend
off tax 1ncreases and quell the demand for trade protectlon will probably
result n a number of Vetoes thls fall. Aldes have reportedly begun
laylng me groundwork for posslble confrontatlon mm Congress over
spendln- mus "1n order to protect the economy."
After a lengthy debate, House and Senate conferees reached agreement
on the 1rst Budget Resolutlon for m 1935, later adopted by the full
House a d Senate the same day. 1: would reduce the flscal 1995 deflclt by
557.5 in 111m. The agreement exceeds the $50 bllllon set by the
Admlnls-ratlon and Federal Reserve Board Chalrman Paul Volcker, who
testlfl-d that thls amount 1n deflclt reductlon 1n 5“! as would be
necessay to keep 1nterest rates from rising.
A Cabln-t shakeout appears llkely m klcked off by the departure of
Health .nd Human Servlces Secretary Margaret Heckler, posslbly bemg
replace by Jack Svahn, the Whlte House domestlc pollcy chlef. Another
Cablnet member 531d to be targeted for replacement 1: Agrlculture
Secretay John Block. In the aftermath of Presldent Reagan's surgery for
cancer, Whlte House Chlef of Staff Donald Regan has been presldlng
over C-lnet meetlngs before the Presldent arrlves m :1: 1n.
The Pre-ldent Will make trips out of town three or four days a month
to prom-te his tax recom plan and to stump for Republlcan candldates
faclng eelsctlon.
When Co grass returns from 1:: August recess much attentlon Will be
focusse- on trade. The protectlonlst leglslatlon proposed thus far 15
threaten chlefly agalnst the Japanese, whlle the trade deflclt mm Canada
and Eur-pe 15 growlng at a 1ncreased rate.
The Conresslonal adjournment date 15 uncertaln, mm several
1mporta t lssues on the agenda, 1nclud1ng approprlatlons mus, the Farm
b111, h ghway constructlon, budget reconclllatlon and Superfund.
Federal Regulatory Agencles
Envlro ental Protectlon Agency
Recentl settled enforcement cases dramatlze EPA'S 1ncreased emphasls
on rlgoous enforcement of the Toxlc Substances Control Act (TSCA).
Page
1
CMA nae 25
Althoug EPA has been 1nspect1ng for compllance mm all sectlons of TSCA,
the larest fines have been levled for Violations of the premanufaature
notlce .nd reportlng provlslons of TSCA. In one recent settlement, 3
substanlal Elna was reduced because the company voluntarlly dlsclosed the
Vlolatlns and agreed to perform a companyiwlde audlt for compllance mm
TSCA.
Slnce l.te June, EPA has been preparlng a 115: of hazardous
substanes that 1: belleves should be strlngently controlled. Draft 115::
have ra ged from 50 to 7mm chemlcals, dependlng on EPA'S selectlon
crlterln The 115:, expected to be publlshed durlng September, will
probabl cover 1007200 substances, whlch Will be the targets of EPA and
OSHA 1n-pectlons.
Federal Energy Regulatory Commlsslon
on May 0, 1935, FERC moved to stlmulate competltlon 1n natural gas
markets by publlshlng a rule. Some parts of the rule are objectlonable,
but oveall 1: could 1mprove access :9 reserves from the outer contlnental
shelf.
Dccupat onal Safety & Health Admlnlstratlon
osaA's ew draft 1nstructlon (CPL 2.557 m Fleld Offlcers Hill
establl-h a Natlonal Pllot Program for inspecting chemlcal plant
processs. Fleld Offlcers are now bemg tralned to conduct process safety
1nspect ons.
Departm-nt of Transportatlon
Senlor 551C151: 1n the Department of Transportatlon are conslderlng
recommedlng that the v.5. not contlnue 1:5 talks Hlth the Consultatlon
Shlppln Group (ass) of developed countrles regardlng a formal agreement
to oppo a cargo reservatlon. cm favors contlnuatlon of the talks leadlng
m a to 31 agreement, and 15 advocatlng 1:: support :9 DOT and the other
Executl a Branch departments and agencles 1nvolved 1n the declslon.
Interns lonal
The Conress 15 1ncreaslngly angry about the ever worsenlng trade
Sltuatln, but frustrated 1n finding a solutlon. The Representatlve
Glbbons 13.x. 24517 mu deallng Hlth the use of natural resources 15
strongl opposed by the Admlnlstratlon and parts of the busmess
commumy. The leglslatlve proposal by Representatlve Rostenkowskl 13.11.
30357 t“ impose a 25 percent surcharge on 1mports has galned many
supportrs but 15 consldered to be too extreme. The many anuaapanese
proposa s are bolstered by the probable ssn bllllon trade deficit Hlth
that contry. These measures seem too much a departure from tradltlonal
v.5. tr.de pollcy for the lawmakers. Meanwhlle, the Admlnlstratlon 15
forced 0 deal mm the myrlad unport problems on an 1ndustry by 1ndustry
basls R th remedles avaliable 1n present law.
Page
2
CMA 03927
The v.5 contlnues to promote a new GATT round of tarlff and non*
tarlff wargalnlng, 1: 15 Hlnnlng support 1n Europe and mm other
countrls. The Congress 15 reluctant but does not yet have the
Admlnlsratlon's request for authorlty to proceed. Th1: 15 predlcted to
come ye thls fall mm negotlatlons proposed to start 1n 1935. cm 15
preparing 1:5 pollcy recommendatlons for the leglslatlve process and for
the negutlatlon phase.
The expcted v.5. trade deficit of 5150 bllllon 1n 1995 15 lamented
by ever one but no real solutlon 15 yet 1n Sight. The sllght decllne of
the dol ar has ralsed some hopes for an early and to the trade problem.
The dol ar must drop much further down to make a dlfference and 1: Will
take ma y months after the drop to become a Significant trade factor.
States
In 1995 the Natlonal Conference of State Leglslatures polled more
than an leglslatlve leaders and leglslatlve research dlrectors asklng
what we a the key lssues challenglng the 50 state leglslatures. Budget
and tax concerns ranked as the top lssues for Vlrtually every leglslatlve
agenda. Some states face tlght budgets and are searchlng for new
revenue. Others are conslderlng the allocatlon of budget surpluses, tax
recom nd tax cuts.
In the atural resources area. the survey alted hazardous wastes as a
top con em for state leglslatures. Issues they expect to address 1nclude
1dentlf catlon of dlsposal sltes, transportatlon of materlals, regulatlon
of gene stars and cleaniup efforts.
At a tle when federal am to the states 15 dlmlnlshlng and economc
pressurs force austerlty, state leglslatures have worked to meet speclal
program needs such as educatlon and health care. Whlle the flnanclal
1ndustr 15 undergolng dramatlc technologlcal changes, leglslatures are
reshapl g thelr regulatory structures and proposlng statutes that
recognl e the shlftlng geographlc boundarles of flnanclal 1nst1tutlons.
Many pr-blems remaln and major reform efforts may undergo further change
1n the omng years.
Medla
The med 3 have been focuslng 1ncreaslngly sophlstlcated attentlon on
publlc ealth and safety matters. Th1: concentratlon has been growlng
Since bfore Bhopal and the recent accldental release at Instltute, West
Vlrglnlu
Accordl g to researchers the medla has been developmg the theme of
"corpor.te acts as the drlvlng force 1n Amerlcan soclety." The up slde 15
that th publlc sees busmess as the problem solver of cholae. The down
slde 15 the medla loves to 61nd feet of clay on the publlc's heroes.
Corpora a governance lssues have been among the top Elva covered by
the hat onal medla. Unllke acute storles such as the Instltute release,
Page
3
CMA 039-29
Reagan' health, alums accldents W whlch may surge to hlgher levels 1n
the top Elva attentlon m governance has remalned steady over 51X to
elght m-nths.
The med 3 have 1dent1£1ed a growlng separatlon between "grassroots
actlvls s" such L015 Glbbs' Clearlnghouse on Hazardous Waste, the
Natlona Coalltlon Agalnst Toxlc Waste, Ralph Nader's Publlc Interest
Researc Groups (PIRGsy and Greenpeace and the scicalled gang of 10
mum, s erra Club. Wlldlle, Audubon. Frlends of the Earth, etc.
The "ga g's" new manlfesto, An Envlronmental Agenda for the Future,
1nclude lssues such as populatlon control, trade pollcy, nuclear war and
world h nger.
Actlvls 5 say the tradltlonal groups are becomlng 1rrelevant m
domestl envlronmental questlons and have lost touch mm the proven,
t1me*teted confrontatlonal approach to relatlonshlps Hlth government and
busmes. Recent accldents and 1nc1dents have strengthened the
confron atlonal hand and could give the tradltlonallsts second thoughts
about t elr recent moves toward more buslne55711ke leadershlp and
coopera 1Ve approaches.
II. 155 5 AND woman STATUS
swmuv .
(CERCLA and old Waste Slte Cleanup)
Congreslonal Developments and Response
Senate ctlvlty. The Senate Flnance Coranlttee has completed actlon
and rep-rted m the Senate floor a fundlng level and mechanlsm m s. 51,
Superfu d reauthorlzatlon. They approved freezlng the current feedstock
tax and imposlng a Superfund exclse tax (say on manufacturlng. SET would
apply t- sales of tanglble personal property by the person who
manufac ured or produced the property. The fundlng level 15 57.5 bllllon
for the next 5 years mm $300 million from feedstock: taxes and 51.2
bllllon from SET per year. Also, the commlttee deleted general revenues
from s. 51, malnly to deny fundlng for the Vlctlm asslstance demonstratlon
program
The Sen.te Judlclary Commlttee, whlch was granted sequentlal referral
of the eferral of the b111, falled to make changes durlng thelr referral
tune pe 10d. Thus members of the Judlclary Commlttee may offer amendments
on Supe fund llablllty and settlements lssues.
Senate loor actlon 1: expected to occur 1n September and number of
amendme ts Will be offered. of concern to CMA would be amendments to
alter t e Flnance Commlttee fundlng mechanlsm, that would expand the
conmum y rlghtitoiknow provlslons and that would add general revenue to
fund th- Vlctlms asslstance demonstratlon program. Also 1: 1: expected
that Se ator Robert Stafford (chTy will offer am amendment for he the
1nsuran e 1ndustry. 1: would ellmlnate 1nsurance pollcy to coverage prior
Rage
4
CMA 039:29
r
m 1980 for waste slte cleanups and for 1nsurance pollcles wrltten after
1980 th-y would speclflcally state that waste cleanup 15 covered.
House A tlvlty. The Energy and Commerce Commlttee reported Superfund
reautholzatlon leglslatlon, 3.x. 2917, on July 25, The leglslatlon
repress ts support of a bkparusan Coalltlon led by Representatlves John
mngell ”Hm, Dennls Eckart ”7,03, and Norman Lent (Rruyy. Votlng
agalnst reportlng 3.x. 2917 were Representatlves James Florlo ”Hm,
Henry -xman ”Hm, and a other commlttee Democrats.
The legslatlon focuses prlmarlly on cleanlng up inactive hazardous
waste . d sltes except 1n an emergency, gives EPA dlscretlon 1n cleanlng
up sac 51tE, grants states new authorlty, requlres health assessment at
N'PL slt-s and creates a communlty rlghtitoiknow.
The Pu-llc Works 5 Transportatlon Commlttee has completed hearlngs on
Superf d and Hill begln markiup 1n September. cm testlfled twlce before
the Wat-r Resources Subcommlttee on the Superfund reauthorlzatlon lssues
and co unlty rlghtitoiknow. The Judlclary Commlttee held two days of
hearln on the settlement and enforcement lssues and cm testlfled. They
Hill 0 ly have jurlsdlctlon for a short tune 1n September.
The W3 _ & Mews Commlttee 15 not expected to schedule Superfund for
consldeatlon untll after the other commlttees complete actlon.
Represe tatlve Jim Jones (DiDKV has recently 1ntroduced the Senate Flnance
Commltt-e's Superfund fundlng package, 3.x. 3030. Th1: means 1: 15
unllkel that a Bonsaisenate conference can occur and a mu Signed 1nto
law bef-re the taxlng authorlty explres on September an.
The Su-rfund Task Group of CMA'S Government Relatlons Commlttee
contln -s to advocate CMA'S posltlon on both the fundlng portlon and the
progra atlc portlon of the Superfund lssues. The chemlcal 1ndustry's
concer over substantlal 1ncrease 1n feedstock taxes 15 belng heard 1n
7 Cong -55 and the probablllty of encounterlng posltlve 1ncreases 1n the
feedst- k tax appears to be diminishing. Much more dlscusslon has
develo-d 1n Congress about the posslble need for some new broadibased
tax. B- h of these polnts were emphaslzed 1n the 1ntroductlon of other
mu: 1 both the House and the Senate. But, an 1ndustry Coalltlon has
conned o flght agalnst the enactment 1n Superfund of a broadibased tax,
includl g the Flnance Cosnlttees Superfund exclse tax. CMA also contlnues
m wor actlvely mm other 1ndustry trade assoclatlons to develop
broarknsed support for many of the lssues.
2. Gras roots Actlvltles
The Gr. sroots Program contlnues to respond to the changlng
leglsl.1ve status of the Superfund reauthorlzatlon. Durlng early 1935,
most g .ssroots actlvlty was targeted to Members of the Energy and
Comer- Commlttee. Those efforts were apparent 1n the flnal Energy and
Comer- Commlttee Vote to report 3.x. 2917. of the fourteen Democrats
who Vo -d to report 3.x. 2917, eleven had been targeted by the Grassroots
progra . Only two targeted Congressmen Voted agalnst reportlng 3.x. 2917.
All SE -n Republlcans who had been targeted Voted to report 3.x. 2317.
In tot- , elghteen out of the twenty members who had been targeted by
Page
5
CMA 03330
the gr. sroots program Voted to report 3.x. 2317. A table summary of
grassruts actlvltles 1n the Energy and Commerce Commlttee follows.
THE ENm'GY AND comma COMMITTEE
comm MAN/
ursm-
MAJOR]:
...Joh mngell, DrMIrla
James cheuer, uiuyie
Henry axman, D7CA724
Tlmoth mun, Dicor2
...1>m 1p sharp, u7m72
James lorlo. DrNJrl
Edward ‘ arkey. DiMAi‘I
...Tho as Luken. Droﬂrl
...Dou Walgren, DrPArle
...R1c ard Shelby, DiALi‘I
”.1311 y Tauzln, D,LA,3
...Den 1: Eckart, Drown
B. Rlc ardson, mma
...J1m slattery, |H<572
Gerry 1korsk1, DrMNra
Jim Bales, D7CA744
MINDRIIY
...Jams Broyhlll, Riuciln
...Edw.rd Madlgan, RilLils
...Mat-R1naldo. RiNJi‘I
...Bob Whlttaker. R7KS’5
...Thoas Tauke. R71A72
...Thoas Bllley, RiVAi3
...M1c ael Dxley, R70R74
...How.rd melson, RiUTi3
...M1k-B111rak15. RiFLiB
...Dan Schaefer. Ricoia
...Fre Eckert. RiNYi3D
MET WI 3
CDNG'M
1994
CDALIT 0N
MEETINI
1995
MET WI 3
CDNG'M
1995
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
CDALIT 0N
mum
1994
APRIL 7
1995
mum
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
Page
a
CMA n 9331
voted to report 3.x. 2917
The G-assroots Program 15 now concentratlng on the House Ways and
Means Commlttee 1n addltlon m a few speclflc House Publlc works and
Transortatlon Commlttee targets. All companles partlclpatlng 1n the
Grassoots Program have been contacted requestlng letters and plantmanager Visits durlng August to all Members of these Commlttees.
In Edition to Superfund actlvltles, the cm Government Relatlons
Comml-tee's Grassroots Task Group has establlshed goals for the remalnder
of 195 and 1935.
These goals are as follows:
Goal :
Ident fy the lssue or lssues whlch Will be the prlmary focal polnt
for t a grassroots program.
am: will be recomnended by the
Gover men: Relatlons Commlttee and approved by CMA'S Board of
D1recors.7
Goal :
Date 1ne what grassroots organlzatlon 15 best sulted to 1nfluence
the n-w lssue or lssues.
Goal :
Strenthen the grassroots structure and 1mprove partlclpatlon of Task
Group Members, Grassroots Managers (mum, and Congresslonal Liaison
Repre entatlves (cum.
7 Detmlne speclflc responslbllltles of cm: and CLRS.
7 Bro.den responslbllltles of Task Group.
7 Imp ova communlcatlons on lssue/lssues and results.
7 Encnurage more 1n1tlatlve.
Goal :
Condu t more training.
7 Brl g cm: and/or CLRs m Washlngton to launch new lssues,
set g-als, and conduct training (November 12, 1935).
7 The Task Group Chalman, Task Group members and the cm staff
execu 1Ve to provlde onislte training to cm: and CLRS.
Goal :
Estab 15h targets and time frames relatlve to grassroots efforts on
next ssue or lssues.
Regul.tory Developments and Response
Draft Superfund Health Assessment Manual. The Superfund
Imple entatlon Task Group developed 1nfomal comments on EPA'S draft
Super und Health Assessment Manual. The manual will be used by EPA
perso nel to gulde the Agency's actlons at slte cleanups. Although
gene .lly supportlve of the draft document, CMA'S comments recommended
save .1 polnts to help 1mprove the flnal EPA work product.
Draf EPA Guldance Document for Provldlng Alternatlve water Supplles.
The ~ perfund Implementatlon Task Group developed 1nformal comments on
EPA' draft guldance on provldlng alternatlve water supplles. The
Page
7
CMA 33332
guld.nce manual will be used by EPA personnel to 35515: 1n Superfund slte
Clea up actlvltles. CMA'S 1nfomal comments were deslgned to correct
subsantlve problems observed 1n the draft guldance document.
Comm nlcatlons
1n 3 three month perlod, June through August, 94 natlonal and
regl-Inal medla brleflngs have been completed by CMA/metnber company teams.
That amounts to more calls than were completed 1n 51x months 1n 1934.
The dltorlal board response has agaln been posltlve mm balanced
edlt-rlal treatment 1n the key natlonal press the New York Tunes, wall
Stret Journal and the Washlngton Post as well as leadlng reglonal
newsapers.
In Edition to natlonal releases speclal materlals were targeted to
specflc states and dlstrlcts. Th1: locallzed materlal (Texas unpact for
Texa, etc.) went to an major market areas.
A ne , and Very successful approach, was for cm to serve as an
alts natlve network for dlstrlbutlon of 1nfomatlon not covered by the
co ‘ erclal networks.
Th1 teen Congressmen, fearlng that reauthorlzatlon was 1n danger,
Granted a compromlse. Major natlonal speclal 1nterest groups 1mmedlately
ath_cked the members 1n thelr dlstrlcts for straylng from a hard llne.
CMA fllmed the members' press conference; supplled same day
tel.vlslon coverage to statlons 1n thelr dlstrlcts; surveyed usage and
co lled a report; supplled the members mm Copies of the materlals and
recurds of use 1n thelr dlstrlcts.
New areas are belng targeted for Superfund medla tours as Congress
rat rns 1n September.
Pu-llc Compensatlon
Co gresslonal Developments and Response
Prnduct Liability. Senator John Danforth “Ham, Chalman of the
Se ate Commerce CommlttEE, has released a new staff worklng draft of
pr-duct liability leglslatlon. Th1: effort 1: deslgned to break current
dadlock on product liability leglslatlon. The deadlock emerged 1n May
w an a motlon to report Senator Robert Kasten's mu falled on an eight to
-1ght Vote.
The staff draft comblnes unlform federal product llablllty standards
the focus of the Kasten mu mm a new alternatlve clalm system.
Th1: system provldes an 1njured party Hlth an alternatlve to litigation.
Anyone harmed by a product could submlt an expedlted clalm for a llmlted
range of damages to the manufacturer. A manufacturer who pays these
damages or decllnes to pay a clalm solely ”because of a dlspute over the
Page
s
cm 039333
amount of damages may not be sued for damages arising out of the same
harm. cm 1ntends m submlt 1:5 Vlews on the draft to Senator Danforth.
ujjlte Handllng and Dlsposal
Regulatory Developments and Response
Streamllnlng State RCRA Revlslons. The RCRA Regulatlons Task Group
developed comments on EPA'S proposed regulatlons m streamllne state
revlslons. CMA'S comments supported EPA'S regulatory reform proposals
that procedurally slmpllfy the rulemaklng process.
Draft Toxlclty Characterlstlc Leachlng Procedure (TCLP). The
Envlronmental Monltorlng Task Group developed 1nfomal comments on EPA'S
TCLP methodology. The TCLP Will be used by EPA for determlnlng whether
certaln substances are hazardous under RCRA. CMA'S comments 1dent1£1ed
technlcal and sclentlflc problems Hlth the methodology as 1: 15 presently
set forth. The task group 15 worklng mm EPA and other trade groups to
reflne the methodology so that 1: meets EPA'S and 1ndustry's needs.
Technlcal and Research Actlvltles
Solid Waste Technology Workshop. The Solid Waste Technology Task
Group sponsored a workshop for solld waste experts. The workshop, attended
by 40 member company representatlves, provlded an opportunlty m dlscuss
common problems and exchange 1deas on solld waste technology matters.
Xnterassoclatlon TCLP Research Project. The Envlronmental Management
Commlttee approved partlclpatlon 1n an 1nterassoclatlon project to study
EPA'S TCLP methods to Verlfy the preclslon and accuracy of the procedures,
v Other organlzatlons partlclpatlng 1n the project are the Amerlcan Iron and
Steel Instltute. Amerlcan Mlnlng Congress, Amerlcan Textlle Manufacturers
Instltute, Edlson Electrlc Instltute, and Amerlcan Lead Industry. The
goal of the project 15 to provlde data and 1nfomatlon that will result 1n
revlslons m the TCLP methods.
Waste Mlnlmlzatlon Guldance. The RCRA Regulatlons Task Group
developed a guldance document offerlng member companles recommendatlons on
how to comply mm the new RCRA waste mlnlmlzatlon certlflcatlon
provlslons. The document, rather than statlng one way to comply, offers
member companles optlons to be consldered 1n developmg a plan to comply
Hlth the requlrements that take effect 1n November 1935.
thlgatlon and Related Actlvltles
Deflnltlon of Solid Waste. on Aprll 4, 1935, CMA moved to 1ntervene
1n Amerlcan Mlnlng Congress v. Envlronmental Protectlon Agency, No.
9571205 m.c. C1r-7 Th1: case 1nvolves a challenge to EPA'S new
deflnltlon of solld waste, publlshed as a flnal rule on January 4, 1935.
CMA'S motlon to 1ntervene has been granted.
cm became 1nvolved 1n thls case for two reasons. First, am has
teen closely assoclated Hlth' the development of the new deflnltlon of
Page
cw 039334
solld waste and therefore was 1nterested 1n contlnulng thls 1nvolvement
to assure that our members' 1nterests are protected, 1n addltlon, the
flnal rule has devlated from the proposal 1n one Significant respect: 1:
brlngs Within the deflnltlon of solld waste onislte reclamatlon actlvltles
that are a part of a chemlcal process. As a result, CMA members may be
faced mm havlng to apply for RCRA permlts for many hundreds of
reclamatlon processes and assoclated storage tanks. CMA has met mm EPA
to detemlne whether alternatlve regulatory schemes can be developed that
will address EPA'S concerns whlle excludlng these operatlons whlch are
clearly a part of chemlcal processes.
Communlcatlons
"Cleanlng Up", the new waste slte cleanup £11m, has been completed
and 1: 1n dlstrlbutlon. The £11m 15 1ntended to demonstrate the progress
belng made 1n cleanup and features a roundtable dlscusslon between Lee
Thomas. EPA admlnlstrator. 13111 Rellly, Conservatlon Foundatlon, Chuck
Powers, Clean Sltes InC., Penny Newman, Callfornla envlronmental actlvlst
and Tom Hellman. former EMC chalrman.
Inltlal dlstrlbutlon Will be 1n 13 key "chemlcal... productlon states
to commerclal. cable and educatlonal televlslon statlons and adult commui
nlty groups. The communlty 1nfomatlon task group of the Communlcatlons
Colmnlttee 15 actlve 1n placlng the program.
In addltlon member companles are usmg the £11m for 1nternal
audlences. mm promotlon just beglnnlng, more than 50 £11m: and tapes
have been sold and an are bemg prevlewed.
Safe Drlnklng Water/Groundwater
Congresslonal Developments and Response
Safe Drlnklng Water
Senate Actlvlty. The Senate b111, s. 124, 1ntroduced by Sen. Davld
Durenberger mime), amends the Safe Drlnklng Water Act. The mu focuses
on settlng drlnklng water standards and regulatlng publlc water systems.
cm generally supports 5. 124, bellevlng most of our concerns have been
addressed. We partlcularly support the declslon not to 1nclude
comprehenslve groundwater protectlon provlslons. The mu passed the
Senate by Volce Vote May 15.
House Actlvlty. The House b111, 3.x. 1550, 1ntroduced by Rep.
Madlgan (RilLy passed the House by Volce Vote June 17. The mu dlffers
from the Senate mu 1n two key areas: standardisettlng and groundwater
protectlon.
1: looks as though the 5|:sz Conference will not take place untll
September. Although Congresslonal staff predlct that the conference will
go smoothly, there may be controversy over groundwater protectlon 7 a
state groundwater plannlng program 1n the House mm 13.1}. 15507 that 1:
absent from the Senate mm. The Senate conferees are opposed to major
Page
10
cm 039335
groundwater protectlon provlslons 1n the saw reauthorlzatlon. Senator
Durenberger wants separate federal leglslatlon to protect groundwater and
expects to 1ntroduce a mu 1n the fall (see groundwater secuony.
In addltlon the mus dlffer 1n standard settlng, judlclal revlew and
authorlzatlon levels. but 3111 staffers expect compromlse on these
lssues.
am will be supportlng the Senate mu over the House mm on three
lssues: standard settlng, no comprehenslve groundwater protectlon
program, and the Senate crltlcal aqulfer demonstratlon program 1nstead of
the House sole source.
Groundwater
Senator Dave Durenberger “Ham has held three hearlngs as he pre*
pares to 1ntroduce ms groundwater protectlon mu thls fall.
The flrst two hearlngs, held on June 17 and 20 were on groundwater
quallty and quantlty, contamlnatlon and pollcy lssues, and state efforts.
The mum hearlng, focused on EPA'S groundwater protectlon strategy. thch
calls for EPA to provlde flnanclal asslstance to the states. Addltlonal
hearlngs Will be held 1n Washlngton 1n September and October, whlch 15
when CMA Hill testlfy. Senator Durenberger plans on clrculatlng a draft
mm for comment 1n September.
2. Technlcal and Research Actlvltles
Appllcatlon of Rlsk Analysls m Groundwater Issues. The Rlsk
Assessment Task Group conducted a revlew of the appllcatlon of rlsk
analysls concepts to groundwater lssues. The revlew focused prevlous work
1n developmg rlsk analysls methods on the speclflc problems assoclated
Hlth groundwater contamlnatlon. Future actlvlty Hill 1dentlfy the
appllcatlon of rlsk analysls methods to establlsh acceptable exposure
levels to substances found 1n groundwater.
Deflnltlon of Key Groundwater Terms. The Groundwater Management Task
Group developed a glossary of definitions of key groundwater terms.
The definitions will assure conslstent use of key terms 1n all cm
groundwater work products.
Groundwater Contalnment and Treatment Technologles. The Water
Technology Task Group developed a summary of exlstlng groundwater
contalnment and treatment technologles. The summary 15 avaliable to
member companles and CH1: for thelr use 1n addresslng groundwater
matters.
Alternate Supplies of Drlnklng Water. The Groundwater Task Group
developed a paper on alternate supplles of drlnklng water where
contamlnatlon exlsts. Th1: paper 15 an elaboratlon of a prevlously
approved Superfund posltlon on alternate supplles of drlnklng water. The
work product will be used by the State Affalrs Commlttee 1n addresslng
state groundwater leglslatlve matters.
Page
11
cm 039335
Underground Injectlon Control Project. Seventeen companles have
agreed to partlclpate 1n 3 speclally funded actlvlty addresslng potentlal
bans under RCRA of the underground 1njectlon of hazardous wastes. The
group 1ncludes cm members and other companles that use underground
1njectlon as a dlsposal mechanlsm for a manufacturlng faclllty. The
prlmary objectlve of the group 15 to develop relevant technlcal data and
1nformatlon for submlttal to EPA 1n order to 1mpact on EPA'S regulatory
declslon maklng process.
Communlcatlons
A commlttee task group has completed a communlcatlon and medla
relatlons plan for groundwater advocacy.
Government Control of Chemlcal Productlon/Innovatlon (TSCA7
Regulatory Developments and Response
Comprehenslve Reportlng. on July 17 and 30, EPA held publlc meetlngs
to revlew a draft reportlng rule that EPA plans to develop but has not yet
formally proposed. EPA would lssue the comprehenslve reportlng rule under
the authorlty of Sectlon am of the Toxlc Substances Control Act (TSCA).
The rule would establlsh an extenslve 115: of questlons and Agency
procedures for maklng chemlcals subject to the rule. Once the model .rule
has been establlshed, EPA would tallor the rule to ask certaln questlons
about partlcular chemlcal substances.
mule such a model rule may establlsh conslstent 1nformatlon requests
to companles, the draft reportlng form 1ncludes burdensome questlons and
questlons related to EPA programs other than TSCA. A5 of yet, EPA has not
developed an Agency procedure to prevent dupllcatlve 1nformatlon requests
under thls draft rule. The Health and Safety Commlttee's Notlflcatlon and
Reportlng Task Group 15 revlewlng the draft and Hill submlt comments to
EPA 1n early October.
Negotlated Testlng. From March through July, cm, EPA, and the
Natural Resources Defense Councll (mum worked to develop a procedure for
negotlatlng test agreements and developlng test rules under TSCA Sectlon 4.
Th1: collaboratlve effort grew out of CMA'S appeal of a Dlstrlct Court
declslon that 1nvalldated EPA'S prevlous procedures for negotlatlng test
agreements under TSCA Sectlon 4.
The guiding prlnclple 1n developmg thls new procedure has been that
test rules and negotlated testlng agreements should be equlvalent.
Consent orders under TSCA Sectlon 4 would be the prlmary mechanlsm to
satlsfy that prlnclple. As mm test rules, the consent orders would
1nclude requlrements to ensure adequate and rellable data, would be
enforceable, and would requlre export notlflcatlon under TSCA Sectlon
121m. In addltlon to these features of the consent order. the new
procedures would 1nclude an opportunlty for publlc partlclpatlon, an
expedlted schedule for negotlatlng and rulemaklng, and a change 1n
Interagency Testlng Commlttee (ITcy procedures to provlde sufflclent time
Page
12
cm 039337
to Either negotlate agreements or prepare rules on chemlcals the
ITC nomlnates to EPA for testlng conslderatlon.
In August, the flnal draft of the preamble and procedural rule were
revlewed by the Health and Safety Commlttee. After Signioff by
the partles 1nvolved, EPA will lssue the procedures as an interim flnal
rule 1n the fall.
Technlcal and Research Actlvltles
PMN Exposure Assessment
The Exposure Assessment Task Group revlewed, commented on, and
dlscussed mm EPA that Agency's draft guldance for preparlng englneerlng
analyses. EPA plans to use the analyses to estlmate exposures to PMN
substances. EPA 15 now revlslng 1:5 guldellnes and plans to seek
addltlonal outslde revlew of the document.
Identlfylng Acute Hazards
cm revlewed EPA'S draft crlterla for identifying acute hazards, and
submltted comments to the Sclence Advlsory Board. EPA generally followed
a loglcal approach 1n 1:: Criteria, but used 1ncomplete methods for
assesslng potentlal ham and potentlal exposure, falled to ensure the use
of accurate data, omltted Significant llmltatlons 1n methodology from 1:5
dlscusslon. and dld not focus 1:: crlterla on the 1ntended purpose for
whlch materlals were to be identified.
Internatlonal Regulatlon
on August 21, CMA Presldent Bob Roland and scam presldent Ron Lang
Signed a jolnt letter addressed to the Admlnlstrator of EPA, Admlnlstrator
of OSHA. Dlrector of Offlce of am; and the v.5. Trade Representatlve,
transmlttlng for thelr 1nformatlon and use the flnlshed work product of
the Joint IAG/CEFIC/CCPA Work Group on Assessment of Chronlc Hazards.
Th1: report represents the effort of a dlstlngulshed group of
toxlcologlsts from the U.s., Europe, and Canada to harmonlze definitions
on carclnogens, mutagens, and teratogens. The work was 1n1tlated over a
year ago and requlred major coordlnatlng meetlngs 1n both Brussels and
Washlngton. 1: represents the flrst 1nternatlonal agreement of 1ndustrlal
groups on temlnology and 15 an excellent flrst step 1n developmg better
1nternatlonal cooperatlon between the v.5. and 1:: major tradlng
partners.
Internatlonal Trade/Intematlonal Competltlon
Congresslonal Developments and Response
Revlslon of Trade Remedy Laws
As he dld 1n the last Congress, Rep. Sam Glbbons (D777FL7 has
1ntroduced a mu to amend countervalllng duty laws by deflnlng as a
subsldy the practlce of usmg natural resource rawhmatemals not avaliable
Page
13
to forelgn 1nvestors for the productlon of flnlshed goods. Th1: provlslon
was 1ncluded 1n a mu whlch passed the House by a slzeable margln 1n the
last Congress. The natural resources provlslon was deleted by the
House/Senate Conference whlch produced the Trade and Tarlff Act of 1934.
The current Glbbons blll 13.x. 24517 would requlre the v.5. manufacturer
to prove that 1njury has occurred before countervalllng dutles could be
unposed. The addltlon of thls 1njury test 15 an attempt to achleve
support from the Admlnlstratlon for the concept. The Admlnlstratlon,
however. 5:111 Vlews the proposal as protectlonlst and 15 opposlng 1:.
The Trade Subcommlttee of the House Ways and Means Commlttee has
already held several days of hearlngs on the issue, and plans addltlonal
hearlngs 1n the fall.
The cm Executlve Commlttee decllned to take a posltlon on the
natural resources lssue at 1:: March 6, 1994 meetlng.
Import Surcharge
Representatlve Dan Rostenkowskl (DrBthrIL) has 1ntroduced a mu
whlch would impose an import surcharge on all goods from selected
countrles. The mm was 1ntroduced mm as co*sponsors, but a substantlal
addltlonal number of Congressmen are expected to also co*sponsor the mu.
Hearlngs on thls matter are planned for early Fall.
The mu would apply to all countrles whose 1994 1mports to the v.5.
exceeded 514 bllllon. One half of thls initial amount. or $7 bllllon, 15
to be 1ndexed 1n future years to the 1994 v.5. Gross Natlonal Product.
Any country whlch meets the above ellglblllty must keep 1:: ratlo of
unports m the Unlted States :9 Exports from the Unlted States below 1.5
(or ratlos of worldiwlde unports :9 Exports below 1.557. If 1: falls to
do so, all unports from that country will be assessed a 25 percent ad
Valorem rate of duty whlch 1: 1n addltlon to any exlstlng duty already 1n
use.
Earller thls year, the Motorola Corporatlon proposed an
across*the*board unport surcharge for three years as a means of combattlng
the deflclt. Such a proposal has yet to be 1ntroduced as leglslatlon.
CMA'S Internatlonal Trade Commlttee has held prellmlnary dlscusslons
on the concept of an unport surcharge. 1: appears that the Commlttee 15
opposed to an across*the*board 1mposltlon of addltlonal dutles, but 1: has
not yet declded whether to take a posltlon.
Internatlonal Negotlatlons/Agreements
U.S,/Israel Free Trade Agreement
The U.S./Israel Free Trade Agreement (way has been passed by the
Congress and Signed 1nto law. 1: becomes effectlve 1n September.
Under the provlslons of the agreement, Vlrtually all dutles Will be
ellmlnated on goods 1mported 1nto the Unlted States from Israel. Certaln
unport sensltlve items, 1nclud1ng most bromlne chemlcals, Will have dutles
Page
14
cm 039339
phased out over a ten year perlod rather than havlng them ellmlnated
unmedlately. The FTA does requlre that goods 1mported from Israel must
have had a minimum of 35 percent of the value of the good added 1n Israel.
Also under the FTA, the v.5. Internatlonal Trade Commlsslon 15 requlred
to conduct a study after Elva years to detemlne 15 any 1ndustr1es or
products have suffered harm as a result of the agreement.
The cm dld not establlsh a posltlon on thls agreement because 1: was
judged to be certaln of success. However. member companles were kept
fully 1nfomed of developments and of how they could take actlon 1n thelr
own best 1nterests.
occupatlonal Safety and Health
Congresslonal Developments and Response
worker nghtitoiKnow. Rep. Joseph Gaydos' mrPAy Health and Safety
Subcommlttee began hearlngs July 17 on concepts underlylng ms High Rlsk
Dccupatlonal Dlsease Notlflcatlon and Preventlon Act, an 1309. Th1: b111,
1n essence crafted at the behest of the AFL/CID, would requlre the
Natlonal Instltute for Dccupatlonal Safety and Health mmsm m establlsh
a system for 1dentlfy1ng, notlfylng and preventlng lllness among workers
who are at 1ncreased rlsk of occupatlonal dlsease. Dr. Bruce Karrh,
testlfylng on behalf of du Pont, expressed concerns about establlshlng an
entlre new bureaucracy for communlcatlon of hazard 1nformatlon whlch could
be better handled by exlstlng programs under OSHA.
CMA'S Health and Safety Commlttee 15 revlewlng an 1309 and expects to
testlfy 1n September when hearlngs resume. Congressman Gaydos has
1nd1cated he 1ntends to complete hearlngs thls year and report the mu
out of commlttee early next year.
Dccupatlonal Dlsease Compensatlon. Rep. Pat Wllllams (Drum
recently 1ntroduced an 3090 whlch would establlsh an employer/
manufacturer 1nsurance fund to compensate workers who contract asbestosls
and other occupatlonal dlseases. Th1: 15 successor leglslatlon to the
Hlller blll um 31757 of the last Congress. Strong AFL/CID support of
an 3090 assures favorable attentlon by the House Educatlon and Labor
Commlttee. CMA'S Health and Safety Commlttee Will be revlewlng the
leglslatlon. partlcularly 1:5 broadened occupatlonal dlsease trlgger
mechanlsm.
Communlty nghtitoiknow mm).
In the Senate, Alphonse D'Amato
”Hm has been worklng on a posslble Superfund floor amendment to provlde
the government and the publlc Hlth 1nfomatlon about the potentlal dangers
of hazardous substances and a coordlnated system for emergency response.
Senator D'Amato chalred a hearlng of the Small Busmess Commlttee at whlch
EPA, local govemment/emergency response offlclals, and small busmess .
testlfled as to thelr reservatlons about the 1nventory/emlsslons "mass
balance" data reportlng requlrements 1n Senator Lautenberg's amendment to
s 51 prevlously reported by the Envlronment and Publlc Works Commlttee.
cm 15 worklng Hlth a Coalltlon of small busmess assoclatlons led by
50cm to achleve more practlcal leglslatlve results. Concepts developed
Page
15
cm 039340
by the Internatlonal Assoclatlon of Flrechlefs Will be a key factor 1n
Senator wAmam's antlclpated leglslatlon. We expect to support Senator
D'Amato's efforts. As soon as his language 15 flnallzed, a major effort
will be made by CMA companles to generate support for the wAmam approach
as a constructlve alternatlve to the Lautenberg amendments to s 51.
In
the meantlme. Senator Lautenberg (Drum 1ntroduced a new mu deallng mm
emergency response, 5 1531, whlch he 1ntends to offer as a floor amendment
to Superfund. Although 1: 15 slgnlflcantly scaled down from prior drafts,
the new mu appears to ralse problems whlch CMA'S Health and Safety
Commlttee Will be revlewlng durlng the August Congresslonal recess.
In the HouSE, the Energy and Commerce Commlttee marked up and
reported out an 2917 Hlth communlty RTK provlslons essentlally 1ntact.
The Materlal Safety Data Sheets (MSD57 were preserved as the Vehlcle for
hazards communlcatlon. Emergency response provlslons are conslstent mm
CMA'S CARR program. An 1nventory/emlsslons reportlng amendment 151ml“
to Senator Lautanberg'sy was defeated by the Commlttee. Trade secret
protectlon was made conslstent mm the OSHA hazard communlcatlon
standard. The Commlttee approved a llmlted preemptlon of state and local
laws adopted after August 1, 1935. A great deal of effort by cm and 1::
member companles resulted 1n 3 flnal RTK product by the Energy and
Commerce Commlttee whlch we are generally pleased mm and can support 1n
the House as a better approach than other exlstlng proposals.
Also 1n the HouSE, the Publlc Works Subcommltte on Water Resources,
chalred by Robert Roe (Drum, held a hearlng July 25 on communlty RTK as
part of 1:5 conslderatlon Superfund. John Jones of Dow Chemlcal, and
Chalrman of our CAER task group, testlfled on behalf of CMA and stressed
the need for a practlcal approach to emergency response. Members of the
Publlc works Conmlttee are becomlng 1nterested 1n RTK/emergency response,
and may wlsh to offer thelr own amendments as part of Superfund. We Will be
worklng mm the busmess coalltlon to make them as close to an 2917 as
posslblE, or otherwlse unprove proposals 1n that Commlttee.
Technlcal and Research Actlvltles
Labellng. The Health and Safety Commlttee's Labellng Task Group met
August 1 to begln updatlng the 1992 Verslon of the Amerlcan Natlonal
Standard for hazardous 1ndustrlal chemlcals/precautlonary labellng. CMA
will assume once agaln the role of canvasslng sponsor for the standard.
The major conslderatlon of the Labellng Task Group will be to address
the precautlonary labellng of chronlc hazards.
thlgatlon and Related Legal Actlvltles
Hazard Communlcatlon Litigation. on May 24, 1935, the Thlrd Clrcult
Court of Appeals ruled that the OSHA hazard communlcatlon standard
preempt: state rlghtitoiknow laws as they apply to manufacturers. Unlted
Steelworkers of Amerlca v, Auchter. 753 F.2d 728 (3d Clr. 1995 7. CMA
1ntervened 1n the case to argue for preemptlon and to defend the
standard's trade secret provlslon. The court left open the questlon of
whether state rlghtitoiknow laws that cover employers beyond the
manufacturlng sector and that have communlty rlghtitoiknow provlslons are
preempted by the federal hazard communlcatlon standard. The Court 531d
Page
15
cm 039341
that questlon must be answered by examlnlng each state law to detemlne 15
the provlslons are "lnextrlcably 1ntertw1ned." There are two cases, pendlng
1n Pennsylvanla and New Jersey, where preemptlon of rlghtitoiknow laws
outslde the manufacturlng sector and 1n the communlty 15 an issue.
The Court also ordered OSHA to amend 1:5 deflnltlon of "trade secret"
and 1n dolng so, not to go beyond the common law definition. OSHA was
also ordered to provlde for employee access (both the manufacturer's
employees as well as downstream employees) to trade secret 1nformatlon.
The standard currently provldes such access only to health professlonals.
No party has petltloned the Supreme Court to hear the case. At thls
time, 1: appears there Will be a new rulemaklng on the trade secret
lssues, and OSHA Will also publlsh an advanced notlce of proposed
rulemaklng on the lssue of expandlng the scope of coverage of the
standard, whlch was also ordered by the Court.
communlcatlons
Instltute: cm recelved and responded to 4mm medla calls 1n Elva
days followlng the accldental release at Instltute. spokesmen appeared on
ABC's nghtllne, CNN'S Newsmakers, ch's nghtwatch and a number of radlo
network programs. Asslstance was also provlded to axe spokesmen {<*>r
reglonal appearances.
Speclal marketlng research technlques are belng adapted to analyze
audlence response to 1ndustry messages about plant safety emergency
response and rlsk management.
Clean Alr
Congresslonal Developments and Response
mngen Survey. CMA transmltted to Congressman John mngell (Drum
on June 21 responses to his Aprll 3 letter requestlng that am conduct
surveys 1n three study areas regardlng monltorlng and detectlon of
chemlcal releases 1nto the alr and emergency response systems among
chemlcal plants. The transmlttal m mngen 1ncluded the 1nd1v1dual
survey questlonnalres whlch cm member companles completed for
approxlmately en chemlcal plants located 1n Baton Rougeﬁqew Orleans,
Phlladelphlai Wllmlngtonisouth New Jersey, and Buffaloiwlagara Falls. cm
has wrltten members of Congress whose dlstrlcts fall Hlthln the survey
areas to 1nform them about the survey and to indicate that they will
recelve CMA'S analysls. CMA'S Clean Alr Act Task Group plans Visits to
the 22 members of Congress to dellver the analysls.
House Actlvlty. The Toxlc Release Control Act 13.)}. 25757,
1ntroduced by Congressman Henry Waxman ”Hm, was the toplc of two days
of hearlngs 1n June before Waxman's Health and the Envlronment
Subcomnlttee. CMA testlfled on June 11th that 3.x. 2575 15 not an
effectlve and efflclent approach to potentlal publlc health rlsks
presented by the release of toxlc chemlcals 1nto the alr; that a mu must
dlstlngulsh more clearly between large Volume accldental release of
Page
17
cm 039342
acutely toxlc materlals and lowilevel exposures to substances over longer
perlods of tune; and. that am 15 prepared to help Congress deslgn
approprlate leglslatlon whlle contlnulng to develop and 1mplement new
initiatives to control hazardous air pollutants. Also durlng the June 11
hearlngs, Congressman John mngell (Drum Volced strong opposltlon to 3.x.
2575. At the other day of hearlngs, there were 1ndustry wltnesses,
representlng alumlnum, electrlc power, motor Vehlcles and consumer
products. An effort to afflx portlons of 3.x. 2575 to the Superfund
leglslatlon falled durlng markiup 1n the Energy and Commerce Commlttee.
Even 15 Waxman succeeds 1n gettlng a mu out of ms subcomlttee, full
commlttee conslderatlon seems unllkely.
Senate Actlvlty. In the Senate, commlttee hearlngs mlght get under
way thls fall on clean alr amendments as a whole.
Regulatory Developments and Response
Revlsed Partlculate Matter Standard. The Alr Pollutlon Effects Task
Group developed comments on EPA'S proposed revlslons to the partlculate
matter natlonal amblent air quallty standard. CMA'S comments hlghllght
several sclentlflc and technlcal deflclencles 1n the proposal. The flnal
standard will be the basls for states revlslng the state luvplementatlon
plan for partlculate matter.
ﬂew Source Perfomance Standards. The Process Emlsslons Regulatlon
Task Group developed consents on EPA'S proposed alr oxldatlon processes and
dlstlllatlon operatlons new source performance standards. These consents
were 1n response to EPA“ s reopenlng the consent perlod and requestlng
addltlonal comments on 1:: mm regulatory model. cm was generally
supportlve of EPA'S proposed approach on 1:: costieffectlveness model,
although we offered several technlcal recommendatlons m unprove 1:5
applicablllty.
mel Chlorlde HESBAPS Judlclal Interventlon. The Envlronmental
Management Commlttee authorlzed CMA'S 1nterventlon 1n 3 judlclal 5m:
supportlng EPA'S proposed revlslons of the Vinyl chlorlde hazardous air
pollutant standard. Th1: lltlgatlon will resolve the questlon of whether
EPA 15 properly 1ntezpret1ng Sectlon 112 of the Clean Alr Act 1n
developlng standards that assure an "ample margln of safety".
Technlcal and Research Actlvltles
mngen Survey Report. The Process Emlsslon Regulatlons Task Group
and 1:5 Monltorlng Work Group have completed the analysls of a survey
requested by Congressman mngell of chemlcal 1ndustrlal plant air
monltorlng. The survey was conducted 1n three dlstlnct areas ﬂew
Orlean57Baton Rouge, Hlagara Falls, and pmlade1ph1rm11m1ngmn5outn ﬂew Jersey. The flnal report will be submltted to Congressman
mngen and m the Offlce of Technology Assessment.
Alr Task Groups Sunsettlng. The Envlronmental Management Commlttee
dlsbanded the Alr Regulatlons Task Group and the Toxlcs Integratlon Task
Group. The actlvltles of the Alr Regulatlons Task Group will be conducted
by a work group of the Process Emlsslon Regulatlons Task Group. The
Page
19
cm 039343
actlvltles of the Toxlcs Integratlon Task Group will be conducted by a
work group of the Alr Pollutlon Effects Task Group.
thlgatlon and Related Actlvltles
mel Chlorlde Litigation. am has moved to 1ntervene 1n a court
5m: brought by the Natural Resources Defense Councll (mum) challenglng
EPA'S emlsslon standards for Vinyl chlorlde under sectlon 112 of the Clean
Alr Act. Th1: case will probably be the flrst to declde the meanlng of
the "ample margln of safety" test of sectlon 112. mum contends that
sectlon 112 requlres ERA to set "zeroirlsk, zero*emmlsslons" standards for
all carclnogens. cm and the Amerlcan Petroleum Instltute, who also
1ntervened. will argue 1n support of EPA'S posltlon 1n the case, that the
Agency 15 authorlzed to taka cost and feaslblllty 1nto account 1n settlng
emlsslon standards under sectlon 112. mm: ﬁlled 1:5 brlef on June 17,
Hlth EPA'S response submltted on July 25. The CMA/API brlef Will be ﬁlled
on August 19. A declslon 1: expected by the spring of 1935.
Clean Water
Congresslonal Developments and Response
Clean Water Leglslatlon. The Senate approved 5. 1129 by a Vote of
9470 on June 13th. In the House, Congressman Robert Roe (Drum worked out
a block of commlttee amendments to 3.x. 9 whlch cm and 1ndustry
representatlves dlscussed mm Roe. on July 23, the House passed 3.x. 9
by a Vote of 340793. Desplte the threat of a Whlte House Veto because of
constru lon grant fundlng, 1: appears posslble that Congress will
complet- work on s. 1129 before thls sesslon ends. 5. 112a and the
House*p.ssed Verslon reflect cm efforts for extenslons, modlflcatlons
deletlo s and report language Clarlflcatlons. The mm: are unproved over
orlglna proposals 1n several areas CMA sought 1nclud1ng: extended
complla Ce deadllnes; 1ncreased protectlon agalnst cltlzen sults relatlve
to adml lstratlve penaltles; afflrmatlve defense under crlmlnal penaltles;
narrowl g of the mandatory reopener requlrements 1n mums permlts;
afflrma ion of the Fundamentally leferent Factors mm Varlance although
Hlth so - procedural llmltatlons; and a provlslon unprovlng stormwater
runioff requlrements. CMA currently 15 preparlng for conference actlvlty
1n Sept- her.
Regulat-ry Developments and Response
Pretrea ‘ ant. The Effluent Guldellnes Task Group developed comments
on EPA' proposed revlslons to 1:5 pretreatment regulatlons. The
proposa revlses the definitions of "1nterference... and "pass through... for
purpose of determlnlng extent of pretreatment control necessary. CMA'S
comment generally supported the changes Since they brought the
deflnlt ons more 1n llne Hlth our orlglnal Vlews on thls matter.
EPA B10 onltorlng. The Water Quallty Crlterla and Standards Task
Group d-veloped comments on EPA'S blomonltorlng study conducted 1n lea,
Dhlo. En requested CMA to peer revlew the study. CMA'S comments were
?age
19
cm nae 44
general y supportlve of the study and how 1: was conducted, and offered
constru-tlve comments on how to 1mprove the report.
Technlc.l and Research Actlvltles
Effluen- Guldellnes Semlnar. The Effluent Guldellnes Task Group
develop-d and conducted a semlnar on EFA'S proposed revlslons m the
organlc chemlcal, plastlcs, and synthetlc flbers effluent guldellnes. The
semlnar was attended by approxlmately ISO member company representatlves.
Speaker were from the task group, cm staff, cm consultants, and
repress tatlves from EPA.
Permlt 1m1tatlons Uncertalnty/Varlablllty. The Envlronmental
Monltor ng Task Group developed a technlcal paper highlightlng
uncerta nty and Varlablllty 1n 3 wide spectrum of envlronmental areas. of
speclfln concern are mums permlt llmltatlons and the documented degree of
uncerta nty and Varlablllty that exlsts. The paper elaborates on thls
polnts 1nce these questlonable numerlcal llmltatlons can form the basls
for EPA enforcement actlons and/or cltlzen sults mm potentlally
slgnlfl-ant penaltles bemg 1mposed.
thlgat on and Related Legal Actlvltles
mums c tlzen Sluts. A federal dlstrlct court 1n Virginia has lssued
the Eu: clvll penalty award 1n an enforcement ease brought by a cltlzen
under t a Clean Water Act. The penalty was based on a serles of permit
Vlolatl-ns that occurred over approxlmately three years. The court
perfomd a lengthy, detalled revlew of the factual Situation and assessed
dlffere t penaltles for Varlous Violations dependlng on the speclflc
clrcums-ances (ranglng from $SD/day m $4,DDD/day7. The declslon 15 bemg
appeals to the Flfth Clrcult Court of Appeals. If upheld, the rullng
could s-rve as an 1mportant precedent for the many other courts now faced
Hlth 51 llar cltlzen 5m: clalms.
Chemlca Product Dlstrlbutlon
Congreslonal Developments and Responno
Hazardo s Materlals Transportatlon
The rea thorlzatlon of Superfund leglslatlon and 1ncreased
Congres-lonal attentlon regardlng hazardous substance and safety lssues
have inlenslfled dlscusslons pertaining to the transport of hazardous
materla s and emergency response. Hazardous materlals transportatlon
lssues .re expected to be 1ncluded 1n hearlngs on envlronmental matters.
Represe tatlve James J. Florlo mimily has sponsored a measure that
1nclude- the creatlon of a federal reglonal training program on hazardous
chemlca 5. Senator Frank R. Lautenberg (Drum has offered leglslatlon
that reulres contlngency plannlng and an 1nventory of hazardous materlals
transpo-ted. He has also 1ntroduced a communlty emergency response and
rlghtitiknow mu that may be offered on the Senate floor as an amendment
to the 'uperfund mm.
Page
20
cm nae 45
cm 15 onltorlng proposals affectlng the movement of hazardous
materla 5. Input 15 bemg provlded for a Congresslonallyimandated study
by the lfflce of Technology Assessment. Dlscusslons are belng conducted
Hlth a azardous materlals advlsory task group at the Department of
Transpotatlon regardlng initiatives to 1nsure more efflclent and safe
transpotatlon of hazardous materlals. CMA also contlnues to partlclpate
1n 3 co.lltlon mm publlc and prlvate sector groups 1n seeklng a
consens s approach to federal/state/local unlfomlty of hazardous
materla s transportatlon regulatlons.
R311 Cometltlon
Hearlng- are expected to contlnue after the August recess 1n both the
Senate .nd House Judlclary Commlttees regardlng antltrust unpllcatlons of
rallroa rate practlce. The R311 Antltrust Monopoly Act offered by
Senator Dennls DeConclnl (DiAZ) and Representatlve John D. Sleberllng
(DrDHrl) 15 the subject of dlscusslon and 15 undergolng redraftlng.
131115 h.ve been 1ntroduced that would curb mgn rallroad rates and
protect captlve shlppers by way of regulatory changes by Senator Russell
D. Long (DiLA) and Mark Andrews “Hm and Representatlves w. j.
"Ellly" Tauzln minim and Nlck Jo Rahall m,wv,4,_ Leglslatlon that
would st standards for r511 rates and detemlnlng when r311 carrlers have
market omlnance has also been 1ntroduced by Senator Wendell a. Ford
mam .nd Representatlve Rahall. Hearlngs have not been scheduled, but
actlvlt may occur 1n the sesslon when the Interstate Commerce Commlsslon
11cm cmpletes a rulemaklng presently underway that addresses r311
competl-lon. The mus 1ntroduced have not recelved the support of the
Admlnls-ratlon. Some Congresslonal support 15 further present for linking
r311 cometltlon lssues and protectlon for captlve shlppers mm
leglsla-lve proposals under conslderatlon to transfer Conrall m the
prlvate sector.
leferl g Vlews exlst among the many shlpplng coalltlons that have
been 60 ed as to whether the staggers R311 Act of 1980 needs reflnement,
major a endment or left to proper 1mplementatlon by the ma. cm
contlnus to work to malntaln and enhance rallitoirall competltlon and
1nsure roper luvplementatlon of exlstlng law. Negotlatlons mm the
rallroa-s have resulted 1n some agreement Hlth regard to praicompetltlve
access ssues. The agreement between cm and the Amerlcan Assoclatlon of
Rallroa-s (Amy has resulted 1n am ma proposed rulemaklng and would
baslcal y obvlate the need for leglslatlon on matters addressed.
Dlscuss ons Hlth congresslonal leaders and ad hoc groups contlnue as
leglsla-lve measures 1re proposed.
Conrall
Blpartl-an mus have been 1ntroduced that would sell the
Consollated R311 Cozporatlon (Conrall) to an 1nvestor group formed by
Morgan tanley & (10., Inc. The leglslatlon provlded for the sale of the
governmnt's as percent share of the freight system for 51.2 mumn and
resale c at least ...n percent of the rallroad to the publlc through one or
more stck offerlngs Hlthln Elva years.
wage
21
cm nae 4a
The Sen.te Commerce, Sclence and Transportatlon Commlttee reported
mu Ho ld authorlze the sale of Conrall m the Norfolk southern
Corporalon. The Admlnlstratlon 15 supportlng the prlvate offerlng to
Norfolk Southern as the result of 3 DOT approved hm process. Opposltlon
to 3 Co r311 merger mm Norfolk Southern contlnues regardlng
antltru-t/competltlve 1mpllcatlons and the tax beneflts that would derlve.
Senate udlclary Commlttee amendments to the Admlnlstratlon mm are
expects, and there 15 1nd1catlon that a flllbuster could occur.
on the ouse 51dE, the hearlng process will contlnue after the August
recess. The use of Conrall tax deductlons as well as the antltrust
aspects of a merger are under revlew by the House Ways and Means Commlttee
and the House Judlclary Commlttee, respectlvely. Addltlonal hearlngs Will
be held before the House Energy and Connerce Subcommlttee on Commerce,
Transpotatlon and Tourlsm.
The Moran Stanley plan, backed by Conrall management and
Will be the prlmary focus of hearlngs 1n the fall. Supporters
amendme ts m the staggers Ball Act to provlde captlve shipper
may 515m attempt to llnk other r311 lssues mm the passage of
Conrall enabllng leglslatlon.
r311 laor,
of
protect on
the 551- of
Concern has been expressed durlng hearlngs that provlslons must be
1nclude: 1n any Conrall sale agreement to assure Competltlon. CMA has
advocat-d the assurance of r311 competltlon 1n the Northeast Corrldor.
The Moran Stanley Company proposal for a publlc offerlng 15 supported by
cm as me most Viable optlon for the dlsposltlon of Conrall.
Regulatmry Development and Response
Conrall Acqulsltlon. The Dlstrlbutlon Cosulttee developed a posltlon
paper 0 the Admlnlstratlon's proposal to sell the Conrall system to the
Norfolk Southern Rallroad Corporatlon. DE prlmary concern 1: the
reductlmn 1n competltlve servlce that may occur 15 Conrall 1: sold to
Norfolk Southern. CMA belleves a publlc sale of Conrall, as proposed by
Morgan tanley 51 Company, would not reduce competitive r311 servlce 1n the
Eastern 0.5.» therefore, cm supports the Morgan Stanley proposal.
Rates ad Compensatlon
Tank (13 Compensatlon. cm, other tank car provlders, and the
rallroas have successfully arrlved at an agreement on the approprlate
level 0 compensatlon for tank car use. Th1: level of payout 15 $554
million The lssues of enforceablllty and the form and duratlon of the
agreemet have also been resolved. The jolnt agreement has been submltted
to the cc for rulemaklng.
R311 to R311 Competltlon. A compromlse agreement between CMA and the
rallroas on the issue of competitive access to Shipping facllltles has
been re.ched. Th1: agreement 15 1ntended to enhance the competitive
alternalves avaliable to chemlcal shlppers by allowlng r311 carrlers to
compete for freight when they do not control the track 1mmedlately servlng
a plant
"age
22
cm nae 47
cm and the rallroads have jolntly petltloned the me to enact our
agreemet. CMA also submltted a supplemental petition to expand the scope
of the ulemaklng by 1nclud1ng the concepts of proportlonal rates and
termlna facilities. cm partlclpated 1n oral argument on July 19 and
antlclp.tes the ma rullng on the lssues by mldiseptember.
on July 17, the ma lssued a 473 declslon 1n Mldtee Vs. ch that, 15
upheld. could substantlally undemme the beneflts of the agreeme*4reached Hlth rallroads. The Commlsslon ruled that before 1: will order
competllve access for the competlng carrler, the controlllng carrler must
be show to be market domlnant and charglng an unreasonably high rate.
cm 15 onslderlng 1nterven1ng 1n the appeal of the Mldtec case.
Product and Geographlc Competltlon. Before a shipper may challen" r511 rate as belng unreasonably high, the shipper must demonstrate mu
the r51 road has "market domlnance" over the trafflc. Two factors bemg
conslde ed are whether the recelver can obtaln the product from other
sources (geographlc compemmom or can obtaln substltute products
(produc compemmom. on July 31, 1935, the ma announced that 1: Hill
modlfy ts product and geographlc competltlon guldellnes. The major
changes will be m that the rallroad must bear the burden of provlng
these 15ne5, and 127 the effect of geographlc competltlon Will be vlewed
dlfferetly, dependlng on whether the shipper 15 the recelver orlglnator
of the .roduct. The ma adopted a few of CMA'S suggested changes to the
propose rules, but rejected our'most Significant changes, as well as
CMA'S ptltlon for a supplemental rulemaklng that would have applled a
Herflnd.hl market share analysls to the market domlnance issue.
Coal Rae Guldellnes. The me recently adopted the crlterla by whlch
1: will judge the reasonableness of coal rates. The crlterla are llkely
to be p oposed for chemlcal rates 1n 3 separate rulemaklng soon. The
crlterl would permit a rallroad to charge a rate based on what 1: would
hypothe leally cost the shipper m bulld and malntaln a r311 llne for 1::
trafflc The rate must also reflect contrlbutlons to the cost by other
shipper and efflclent operatlons by the rallroad.
Argentl a/Brazll Cargo Reservatlon Laws. CMA developed evldence
demons: atlng the adverse effects resultlng from the cargo reservatlon
laws en ated by Argentlna and Brazll. Comments settlng forth the
1ndustr '5 concerns were submltted to the Federal Marltlme Commlsslon.
cm par lalpated 1n 3 delegatlon of government offlclals that undertook a
factifl ding mlsslon to Brazll to detemlne the antlcompetltlve 1mpact of
the Era nun laws.
Chemlca Bulk Parcel Rates. CMA 15 opposlng efforts by chemlcal bulk
parcel anker operators to obtaln antltrust 1mmun1ty m collectlvely set
rates. ‘ A belleves that competitive prlclng 15 essentlal and 15 filing
comnent before the Federal Marltlme Commlsslon and seeklng leglslatlve
actlon award thls end.
cammm
cammg actlvlty contlnues m be well above last year's levels.
Total c 115 are runnlng 32% above last year and emergency reports are 34%
"age
23
cm 039-49
above 1-5: year's totals for the perlod January through July. We belleve
the 1m: eases are a result of helghtened awareness about the cammmc
program and 1ncreased publlc concern about 1nc1dents 1nvolv1ng chemlcals.
cammm Workshops. The thlrd Emergency Response Team Workshop will
be held 1n BaltlmorE, Maryland at the end of October.
Instruc ion for
thls Ho kshop Will be handled by 1nstructors from the Delaware Fire
School.
CHEMNET Based on a meetlng on June 13, 1935, Hlth CMA members, the
CHEMNET Pollcy Statement and Agreement and the camum Operatlng Rules
were re lsed and resubmltted to the membershlp on July 1, 1935, for
thelr c-nslderatlon.
A5 of A gust 15, we have recelved 20 partlclpant agreements and 15
subscrler agreements from cm members. These 35 companles represent a
large prcentage of the chemlcals shipped 1n thls country. We have also
recelve Verbal conflrmatlon from approxlmately 10 addltlonal companles
that thy would joln the CHEMNET system. Therefore, He Will be beglnnlng
the CHE ET operatlons Hlth almost 50 members.
We have also tentatlvely selected four emergency response contractors
to act .5 the "sormue" contractors 1n the CHEMNET system. These
contrac or: have teams at locatlons throughout the Unlted States and can
reach must areas Within 3 m 4 hours of notification, we hope to Sign
contrac s Hlth all four Elms.
mule 5 members and four contractors represent enough emergency
respons capablllty to start up the CHEMNET system, we must redouble our
efforts to enroll more chemlcal companles 1nto the system or the publlc
Hill mlunderstand and be dlsappolnted by the coverage of the camum
program A campalgn m enllst more companles has begun.
Chemlca Referral Center. The Chemlcal Referral Center «may. thch
Will be ome operatlonal by the end of 1935, 15 deslgned to provlde those
that delre health and safety 1nfomatlon about a partlcular chemlcal mm
a comp; y contact that can furnlsh such 1nformatlon. The Dlstrlbutlon
Commltte has establlshed a work group to oversee the operatlon of the
Chemlca Referral Center. Thus far, 93 CMA member companles have Signed
on m t a program. Informatlon pertalnlng to the chemlcals and products
they pr-duce are belng submltted to CMA. Th1: 1nformatlon Will be the
foundat on of a computerlzed chemlcal 1ndex that CMA operators will
use to ink products Hlth manufacturers as a publlc servlce.
Lendlng lerary. The training programs for emergency servlces
personnl have been purchased for the lendlng llbrary. A brochure
115mm; the programs and how to obtaln them 15 now avaliable, and
dlstrlb tlon m flre servlce organlzatlons and members has begun.
Flrst Rsponder Vldeotape Training Program. The scrlpt for the
Vldeotae training program has been approved and filming was started T'~~
week of August 19 at the Falrfax County Fire Training faclllty.
Page
24
am 03949
Emergen y Response Terms, The flnal draft of the booklet on
"Recommnded Tems for Personnel Protectlve Clothlng" was approved
and 5m ld be avaliable for dlstrlbutlon by the end of October. Th1:
documen deflnes and lllustrates terms used to communlcate m the emergency
respondr the dlfferent types of personal protectlve equlpment. The
purpose of the document 15 to ensure clear and conslstent communlcatlon
between those who offer advlce and those who respond.
Technlc-l and Research Actlvltles
Motor C.rr1er Safety Survey. Receptlon of thls program by the
shlppln communlty and the carrler 1ndustry has been Very favorable.
Recentl the Mllltary Trafflc Command expressed a strong 1nterest 1n
adoptln the program for all defense shlpments. A comparlson of the
acclden frequency ratlos of the surveyed motor carrlers agalnst all other
motor c-rrlers Will be undertaken to detemlne whether the safety records
are act ally better than the natlonal average.
Communl atlons
Followl g a rash of 1nc1dents 1n transportlng chemlcals, CMA
spokesm-n have responded to medla questlons Hlth statlstlcs on safety and
explana lons of cam-nmc.
Appears ass on two natlonal televlslon programs on ass and CNN were
organlz-d.
Energy .nd Petrochemlcal Feedstock:
Congres lonal Developments and Response
Natural Gas
The dents over natural gas lssues 15 prlmarlly concentrated 1n the
regulat-ry arena where the Federal Energy Regulatory Conmlsslon (FERQ
rulema my process has 1ntenslfled. FERC actlvlty, partlcularly a
propos. deallng mm the transportatlon or carrlage of gas, 15 under
close ongresslonal scrutlny.
An ame dment adopted by the Senate Approprlatlons Commlttee would
pmmm FERC from puttlng 1nto effect any rule deallng Hlth gas
transp-rtatlon lssues pendlng Congresslonal revlew between enactment of
the en-rgy and water approprlatlon mm and the end of the flrst sesslon
of the 99th Congress. Senator J. Bennett Johnston (D...LA7 wlthdrew ms
amendm-nt on the Senate floor after assurances made by the FERC chalman.
Dppone ts of the appropriatlon amendment belleve that FERC 15 proceedlng
under .ngomg leglslatlve authorlty and that limiting the scope of FERC
actlon 15 an unwarranted 1ntruslon 1n the 1ndependent regulatory process.
The FE'C will probably be allowed to conduct transportatlon programs whlle
Congres Is revlewlng FERC'S rulemaklng. House energy leaders opposed the
approp latlons amendment. however. the House Fossll and Synthetlc Fuels
Subco ‘ lttee submltted several substantlve questlons m FERC regardlng the
rulemalng process.
rag
25
am 03350
Leglsl.tlon unllkely to move qulckly 15 pendlng 1n both the Senate
and Ho SE. A mu 1ntroduced by Senator Don buckles (Rioky would repeal
1ncrem-ntal pricing and fuel use restralnts and decontrol the price of all
gas uner renegotlated or expiring gas purchase contracts. Senate
overslht hearlngs on the status of the natural gas 1ndustry have been
held 1 the Subcotmnlttee on Energy Regulatlon and Conservatlon. A mu
offers by Senator 3111 Bradley (Drum would requlre mandatory contract
carrlae by pipeline companles.
1: 15 xpected that House Energy and Commerce Cononlttee Chalman John
mngel (DrMIrlay and Fossll and Synthetlc Fuels Subcommlttee Chalman
thp R. sharp ”371“,” will hold overslght hearlngs on natural gas
lssues, 1nclud1ng matters presently before the mac. Repeal of gas
1ncrem-ntal pricing provlslons of the Natural Gas Pollcy Act (NGPA7 and
Fuel U-e Act (may restrlctlons are the focus of most attentlon 1n the
House. Representatlve Jim slattery 1D7K57227 and Dan Coats: “‘71:“,47 havr>
1ntrod cad a mu that just repeal the natural gas demand restralnts under
the m and NGPA. Representatlve 13111 Rlchardson mmway and Wllllam E.
Dannem-yer (R7CA7397 have proposed a more comprehenslve measure that would
repeal demand restralnts. further deregulate and requlre contract
carrlae.
am so tlnues to monltor leglslatlve proposals and Ella comments and
presen testlmony before mac. am has requested that FERC act
expedllously on issuing a rule on nondlscrlmlnatory transportatlon.
011 I or: Fee
A Congesslonal attempt was made before the August recess to propose
an 011 import fee as part of the Federal budget deficit reductlon package.
Presld-nt Reagan flatly rejected the proposal, conslstent Hlth ms stated
deslre not to 1ncrease taxes to reduce budget deflclts. However, a
contln mg wllllngness has been demonstrated by key Senate leaders to
consld-r some form of taxatlon on energy as a means to generate revenue.
Senate budget conferees offered a proposal that would mpose a $5 per
barrel levy on 1mported crude 011 and a $10 per barrel fee on 1mports of
reflne petroleum products. The proposal was endorsed by Senate Majorlty
Leader Robert J. Dole (RiK57, Senate Budget Commlttee Chalrman Pete v.
Domenll mmm, and Flnance Commlttee Chalman Senator Bob Packwood
miom Some Admlnlstratlon opposltlon m an 011 import fee has been
quallf ed and the negotlatlons over budget matters may revlve 1nterest 1n
addltlunal taxes on energy. Proposals that may be consldered durlng
budget dellberatlons 1nclude a broadibased consumptlon sales tax on
energy a BTU tax, a value added approach, an 1ncreased gasollne exclse
tax. a ude oll exclse taxes and 011 import fees. A current market surplus
of pet oleum coupled Hlth the one price decllne 15 also 1nfluenc1ng the
Vlews us many 1n Congress.
Leglsl.tlon that would mpose a $10 per barrel fee on unported 011
and re 1ned petroleum products has been 1ntroduced by Representatlve James
a. was er 1D70R747 and Senator Gary Hart micm. Senators Davld Boren
miom and Lloyd Bent'sen (DiTxy are also sponsorlng leglslatlon that would
25
am 03351
levy a tax on unported 011 and 011 products. A mu has also been offered
by Rep esentatlve Anthony c. Bellenson (D7CA7237 that would phase 1n 3 50
cent a gallon exclse tax on gasollne. Senator Lowell P. Welcker “Hm
has of ered a proposal that would phase 1n 3 an cent 1ncrease 1n the
gasoll e exclse tax. No 1mmedlate actlon 1: expected on the mus
1ntrod cad.
The ecmomc 1mpact of Varlous energy taxes on the chemlcal 1ndustry
contln as to be monltored and revlewed at cm. Key Admlnlstratlon
offlc1.ls have been contacted concernlng the 1mpact of energy taxes on the
chemlc-l 1ndustry. cm advocacy and liaison Hlth other 1ndustry groups 15
orlentd 1n opposltlon to the 1mposltlon of new or addltlonal energy
taxes. A broad coalltlon has sent a letter to Presldent Reagan
relter-tlng opposltlon to any addltlonal tax on energy.
Regula ory Developments and Response
Rulema mg on Transportatlon of Natural Gas. on May 30, 1935, the
Federa Energy Regulatory Commlsslon proposed a major rule mm respect to
the reulatlon of natural gas. The purpose of the rule 15 to requlre
nonidlcrlmlnatlon 1n blanket transportatlon programs and to encourage
compettlon 1n natural gas markets.
cm joned a broad Coalltlon of 1ndustrlal users 1n submlttlng
commen s on the proposed rule. These coments expressed support for the
major ollcy dlrectlons and many of the detalls of the Connlsslon's
propos-ls. The comments, however. also urged several 1mportant
moms; atlons. In partlcular, the Connlsslon should not adopt the Part D
approa h for separate mum“; of low? and hlghiprlced gas.
In adntlon to wrltten comments, cm testlfled before the Commlsslon
on Au st 2. The testlmony strongly supported the Commlsslon's efforts to
55ml; ate equal access to outer contlnental shelf gas and urged further
actlo _ 1n thls regard. The testlmony also crltlclzed the Commlsslon for
53111 . to address the substantlal regulatory obstacle created by
1ncre -ntal prlclng. cm urged the Comalsslon to suspend the operatlon of
the 1 remental prlclng program for a deflnlte perlod of tune. Flnally,
cm as ed the Connlsslon to wlthdraw Part D of the proposed rule.
Ellm1.t1ng tradltlonal rolledqn pricing 1n favor of allocatlng and
mm . "old" gas separately from all other gas would create serlous
dlsto lons 1n the natural gas market.
Taxatl-n
Congr- s
Hearl s on tax recom contlnued to be the prlnclpal lssue 1n July
for b- h the House Commlttee on Ways and Means and the Senate Commlttee on
F1nan-. Although the cost of each of these provlslons may Vary from
comps ; to company, thelr comblned unpact to the chemlcal 1ndustry Hill
excee $2.5 bllllon annually. on July 30, Dexter F. Baker, Chlef
Execu Ve Offlcer. Alr Products and Chemlcals, Inc., testlfled on behalf
of th- Assoclatlon before the Commlttee on Ways and Means. In his
Page
27
cm 0 3352
testl ony, whlch was followed by a 45*m1nute colloquy Hlth several members
of th.Comm1ttEE. Mr. Baker demonstrated a Very credlble knowledge of
relatd tax and trade lssues.
cmv » posltlon on tax reform leglslatlon may be brlefly summarlzed 1n
these key polnts:
o Suport of comprehenslve tax reform and Presldent Reagan's
goals of economlc growth, falrness and slmpllclty.
Howevr. the Admlnlstratlon's May 23, 1995 tax proposals
fall .9 meet these goals.
0 The proposed shlft of current 1nd1v1dual tax burdens m
corpoatlons, and more speclflcally m capualqntensme
corpo-atlons, Hill serlously damage the economy and the
prospcts for sustalned growth.
0 In rder to keep v.5. products competitive 1n domestlc and
world markets. 0.5. manufacturers need capltal cost
recovry provlslons comparable to those our forelgn
compenltors enjoy. Thus, Congress should malntaln the
1nves-ment tax credlt and Accelerated Cost Recovery System
(ACES) and should reject the recapture tax on the scicalled
"wlndall" from accelerated depreclatlon.
o The 11mm on forelgn tax
deterlned on an overall
count yibyicountry 11m:
for f-relgn assets would
of do .1e taxatlon.
Credls should contlnue m be
basls The proposed change to a
and t e 171’s” depreclable 115a
subst.ntlally 1ncrease the threat
0 The "tltle passage" test should remaln the basls for
deter 1n1ng the source of 1ncome for exports and Similar
sales In addltlon. Congress should reject the proposed
Chang 1n the allocatlon of 1nterest expenses.
0 The 25*percent tax credlt for research and experlmentatlon
shoul be extended as proposed by the Presldent, and the
morat-rlum on allocatlon of research and development
expenes under Regulatlons 1.95179 should be made
perms ant.
The H-use Senate compromlse on a Joint Congresslonal Resolutlon on
the B dget for Flscal 1995 has cooled a threat that an 011 import fee or
tax 1 crease proposal would be adopted to gain control over mountlng
Feder-l deflclts. Presldent Reagan's efforts to secure a compromlse on
the C-ngressslonal budget resolutlon have undercut support for his tax
refor plan among Senate Republlcans, many of whom contend that the
Preslent sacrlflced a tough Senate budget stance wlthout flrst obtalnlng
offse tlng savlngs from the House Conferees.
Senate and House leaders have attacked both the falrness and the
rave ue neutrallty of the Admlnlstratlon's tax proposal. Senate Flnance
Comm ttee Chalrman Bob Packwood miom hai argued that the proposal's
Page
29
am 39353
prov slons to repeal the deductlon of State and local taxes and the
spec 31 deductlon for marrled couples 1n whlch there are two wage earners
woul 1ncrease taxes for many middleqncome taxpayers. Cltlng the revenue
estl ates by the staff of the Joint Commlttee on Taxatlon, House Ways and
Mean- Chalrman Dan Rostenkowskl (DrIL) called upon the Admlnlstratlon m
idenlfy where addltlonal revenues could be ralsed m malntaln the
prom sad revenue neutrallty of the overall program. Both challenges would
appe.r to have had a major unpact on the Congresslonal tax reform debate.
Unde these clrcumstances, Congress could have greater latltude "to
pick and choose" from the Presldent's tax program 1n fashlonlng a
Cong esslonal vemcle.
Antl 1pat1ng that the Ways and Means Commlttee could begln the
sale tlon of the speclflc components of a tax reform mm as early as
Septmber, CMA 15 developmg 1:: plan for further early actlon on thls
mpo tan: leglslatlon.
The ashlngton busmess communlty 15 dlvlded on the merlts of the
presdent's tax proposal. As the elements of a Congresslonal tax
alts natlve become more deflnlte. the opportunltles for greater busmess
unlt Hill 1ncrease slgnlflcantly. cm contlnues m coordlnate 1:5
eff-I ts on tax leglslatlon Hlth allled busmess and trade groups.
pla Management and Deslgn
Tea leal and Research Acmumw ~
199 Natlonal Electrlcal Code. Th1: code 15 mandatory for a large
numer of Cities, countles and states and 1: has a Significant cost and
safty 1mpact on cm members. The Electrlcal Codes and Standards Task
Gro p will prepare am Comments at 1:: September 24 and 25 meetlng and
manner companles are also encouraged to submlt comnents. Hlstorlcally,
c A partlclpatlon 1n thls actlvlty has resulted 1n 1mproved safety and
510 mllllon per year cost savlngs for members.
Nallonal Electrlcal Manufacturers Assoclatlon Liaison. CMA revlewed
:n- NEMA Standard Procedure for Evaluatlng Ground Fault Clrcult
Inerrupters for Response to Conducted Radlo Frequency Energy. cm
re ommended that the procedure should be developed to guarantee that
gound fault clrcult 1nterrupters Will not be susceptlble to conducted or
r-dlated radlo frequency energy.
L 4353. CMA revlewed the UL Standard for Safety Equlpment erlng
emlnals for Use Hlth Alumlnum and/or Copper Conductors. cm objected to
a 0551 that thls standard be recognlzed as an Amerlcan Natlonal
Standar Gauss, 1n our new, the test procedure should be further
developed :9 made for testlng these termlnals under actual Eleld
condltlons.
age
29
CMA 039354
Patents and Protectlon of Technology
Congress
Process Patent Leglslatlon. Process patent leg tlon has been
1ntroduced 1n both the House 13.)}. 1059, 1ntroduce February 7, 1935,
by Congressman Carlos Moorehead (RiCAH and Senate (5. 1ntroduced
on July 31, 1935, by Senators Mathlas “Hm and LautanbErg 77. CMA
has endorsed nelther mu. However. am has supported generally t sad
for enactment of leglslatlon whlch would give the owner of a process
patented 1n the Unlted States the rlght m brlng a sum for patent
1nfr1ngement agalnst a party who 1mports a product that 15 manufactured
abroad by usmg the process.
State Leglslatlve and Regulatory Actlvlty
Superfund
Missouri. Missourl's method of paylng for hazardous waste cleanups
Will Change 1n 1997 under a law Signed by Governor John Ashcroft. The
hazardous waste cleanup program currently 15 funded mm an employee tax
1mposed on each hazardous waste generator. Under the new statute, the
"head tax" will be replaced by a waste Volume tax effectlve
January 1, 1937, or earller 15 recelpts m the remedlal fund fall below
51.5 million annually. Hazardous waste whlch 15 landfllled or stored'wlll
be taxed at twlce the rate for treated or recycled waste. Missourl's
Hazardous Waste Management Commlsslon 15 dlrected by the new law to set
the tax rates to generate approxlmately 51.5 million from the fees. In
addltlon. the statute requlres the dlrector of the state Department of
Natural Resources to request general revenues or federal funds equal to at
least onsithlrd the amount levled agalnst generators.
Vemont. A tax on hazardous waste generated 1n Vermont took effect
July 1 to flnance a state fund to clean up hazardous waste sltes. In
addltlon to creatlng a state Superfund, the law subjects 1ndustr1es to
strlct. jolnt and several liability for cleanup costs. Under the law, the
state does not have to prove negllgence 1n order to hold a party llable
for cleanup costs. Those responslble for dlsposal or contamlnatlon of any
part of a partlcular slte can be held llable for the entlre cleanup cost.
The Superfund Will be used for remedlal actlon, 1nvest1gatlons, removal of
waste, splll control and relmbursement of expenses by local governments
and others.
Texas. A comprehenslve program to regulate the dlsposal of hazardous
waste and charge fees for the generatlon and dlsposal of hazardous waste
was Signed 1nto law 1n Texas. Industry succeeded 1n securlng several
provlslons such as changes to the permlttlng process. An appllcant now
only needs one permit for storage, processlng, treatment, dlsposal or
destructlon of solld or hazardous waste. Another provlslon prevents local
governments from adoptlng a rule or ordlnance that 15 1ncon515tent mm
the state law.
"age
an
CMA 039355
As a result of the leglslatlon, two funds are created 1n the state
treasury 7 the Hazardous Waste Generatlon and Faclllty Fee Fund and the
Hazardous Waste Dlsposal Fee Fund. Faclllty fees are to be set at
$250,520,000 per year, the generatlon and faclllty fund 15 not to exceed
$35 mllllon a year.
The Hazardous Waste Dlsposal Fee Fund imposes a $4
per dry welght ton fee on hazardous waste dlsposal at a land dlsposal
faclllty. The b111, however, places a Sin mllllon cap on the fund at the
end of a quarter. Funds collected from the dlsposal fee are to be
approprlated for the state/federal match for CERCLA and for state*only
cleanup actlvltles.
publlc Compensatlon
Mlnnesota. Amendments to the state's Superfund statute were recently
enacted 1nclud1ng a $2 mllllon Vlctlms compensatlon fund. Among the mus
key provlslons were:
0 Repeal of the causatlon clause whlch requlred a defendant
1n 3 toxlc tort case to prove that 1: dld not cause the
1njury.
o A change 1n the retroactlvlty provlslon for personal
llablllty from January 1, 1950 to July 1, 1933, the date
the Mlnnesota Superfund law went 1nto effect.
0 Repeal of the jolnt and several liability provlslon.
Conferees, however. deleted a provlslon that would have
llmlted the number of tunes 3 party could be found jolnt
and severally llable.
The Vlctlms compensatlon fund, authorlzed at $2 mllllon, Will be
flnanced through general revenues, although the state can seek repayment
from responslble partles, 15 known. Victims can recover up to $250,000.
Clalms can be submltted for unrelmbursed medlcal expenses, loss of wages
or loss of household labor. The law also provldes that survlvors can
recelve up to $24,000 a year or 52,000 a month. Addltlonally, persons
mm contamlnated water can recover up to 525,000 for alther a new water
supply or for decontasllnatlng exlstlng water resources. If there 15 a
decrease 1n the market value of a prlnclpal resldence due to
contamlnatlon. a person can recover up to 75 percent of the loss or
$25,000, whlchever 15 less.
In order to achleve the favorable changes 1n the exlstlng llablllty
provlslons, 1ndustry 1n Mlnnesota agreed to the compensatlon fund and
strongly supported the mu.
Other States. Amendments to Callfornla...s 1991 Vlctlm compensatlon
law were also enacted recently. These changes moderately expanded the
program but dld not provlde slgnlflcantly more exposure to the 1ndustry.
Actlvlty 15 5:111 underway 1n Massachusetts where a mu may be consldered
1n the next 51x months.
Hazardous Waste
Page
31
CMA 039355
Mlchlgan. In an effort to dlscourage the use of landfllls, whlle
promotlng alternatlves. Governor James Blanchard recently proposed the
1mposltlon of a $10 per ton fee for hazardous waste dlsposed 1n landfllls
beglnnlng 1n 1935. The fee, whlch could be reduced by 50 percent 15 the
waste 15 treated, would generate an estlmated $2 million 1n state revenue
whlch would be applled m addltlonal permlt staff and enforcement. The
proposal would also establlsh a notification, educatlon and inspection
program to 55515: Hlth the dlsposal for smaller quantltles of waste.
Callfornla. A report by the state's Commlsslon for Economlc
Development, chalred by Lt. Governor McCarthy, estlmates that 1: Will
Cost Callfornla $4 bllllon per year for managlng hazardous waste. The
commlsslon's report proposed "the 1990 plan" for unprovlng the management
of toxlc chemlcals 1n Callfornla and mlnlmlzlng long term costs. Key
elements 1nclude reduclng the Volume of waste sent to dumpsltes and
developmg new technology for treatlng waste. Addltlonal short tam
measures recommended by the colmnlsslon 1nclude assurance that adequate
llablllty 1n5urance 15 avaliable for busmesses that produce or dlspose of
hazardous waste, tougher drlnklng water standards for the an most
wldespread toxlc contamlnants and 1ncreased support for technologles that
reduce toxlc chemlcals 1n drlnklng water.
The commlsslon 551d 1: will sponsor or recommend leglslatlon m
accompllsh the plan's objectlves. One proposal would allow the Department
of Health Servlces m Halve state mposed fees on.land dlsposal of
hazardous waste, up to $50 per ton, for any company that substantlally
reduces the Volume of hazardous waste dlsposed of 1n dumps. Another
proposal would create a state certlflcatlon process for hazardous waste
management technologles that are consldered economlcally effectlve and
envlronmentally safe.
South Carollna. Governor Rlchard Rlley recently Signed leglslatlon
that 1ncreased the state's contlngency fund and placed a flxed 11mm on
the amount to hazardous waste dlsposed of 1n the state. The leglslatlon
more than doubles the fee per ton of hazardous waste dlsposed of by
landfllllng or other means of land dlsposal, raising the tax from $5/ton
of wastes generated 1n state m $13/ton. For outiofistate waste recelved
at a faclllty, the tax 1ncreases from $7.50/ton m 519.
Iowa. Although Iowa was one of the flrst states to recelve interim
authorlzatlon over 1:: hazardous waste program, the state has now become
the flrst m voluntarlly wlthdraw thls authorlty Hlth the program
revertlng back to EPA. Due to severe flnanclal shortfalls 1n the state,
the Leglslature approved an approprlatlons measure that deletes fundlng of
the hazardous waste program for two years. Because of thls leglslatlon,
EPA found the state lacklng authorlty m admlnlster the program after
July 1, and suspended Iowa's authorlty to lssue RCRA permlts. Iowa Hill
retaln authorlty over the state's abandoned and uncontrolled sltes, used
011. slte llcenslng and collectlon of hazardous waste fees.
nghtitoiknow
State Leglslatlon. The lssues of chemlcal hazard 1nformatlon
dlsclosure 1n the workplace and the communlty and local emergency response
Page
32
CMA 039357
plannlng, have had a Very hlgh proflle durlng the 1995 state leglslatlve
sesslons. Through the end of July, over 150 rlghtitoiknow mus have been
1ntroduced 1n over 35 states.
Slnce most leglslatures have adjourned for the year or are 1n summer
recess, 1: 15 posslble m begln to summarlze actlvlty 1n thls area. To
data. 22 states have passed some fom of a rlghtitoiknow law thls year.
Ten of the new laws establlsh comprehenslve worker, communlty and/or
emergency response programs. These laws were enacted 1n: Alabama,
Louisiana, Mlssourl, Montana. North Carollna. Oregon, Tennessee, Texas,
Vermont and West Virginia.
Five states have passed laws whlch add communlty rlghtitoiknow or
emergency response requlrements to worker rlghtitoiknow programs enacted
1n prevlous years. These are: Florlda, 1111mm, Malne, Maryland and
Washlngton. Seven addltlonal states have passed laws whlch make mlnor
changes to exlstlng rlghtitoiknow programs. Several states meet 1n
yeariround sesslons. of these. New Jersey 15 debatlng communlty
rlghtitoiknow leglslatlon, Callfornla 15 conslderlng raiauthorlzatlon of
1:5 exlstlng program and Michigan 15 conslderlng a comprehenslve law.
Sesslon Revlew. The task group 15 beglnnlng to assess the 1995 state
leglslatlve sesslon by revlewlng the rlghtitoiknow leglslatlon that has
been enacted. Prellmlnary indications are that the new comprehenslve laws
passed 1n 10 states are generally conslstent Hlth CMA pollcy on worker and
communlty rlghtitoiknow. Most of the laws are based on the Federal OSHA
Standard as they apply to manufacturers, and contaln communlty and
emergency response requlrements whlch could blend mm CMA'S CAER
initiatives. The task group 15 developmg advocacy documents to be used
1n the states whlch 1ncorporate CMA'S pollcy 1n thls area. An update of
the rlghtitoiknow state law compllatlon 15 also bemg prepared whlch Hill
1nclude all new leglslatlon passed 1n 1935.
State Litigation. Court actlons are pendlng 1n two states, as
1ndustry beglns to force states to recognlze the Federal OSHA Standard
preemptlon over state law, as 1: applies to manufacturers. Oral arguments
were heard on June 1:; 1n the appeal of the New Jersey declslon upholdlng
federal preemptlon, (New Jersey State Chamber of Commerce at 31 v.
augheyy. In Pennsylvanla a group of reglonal manufacturlng assoclatlons
ﬁlled sun on July 19, asklng the v.5. Dlstrlct Court to grant an
1njunctlon agalnst the State Department of Labor and Industry, prohibiting
the further 1mplementatlon and future enforcement of that state's worker
and communlty rlghtitoiknow law. No actlon has occurred on thls sum as
yet.
Groundwater
ohm. The governor recently released a report whlch deflnes the
admlnlstratlon's goals and objectlves for envlronmental protectlon and
natural resource development. High on the governor's prlorlty 115: 15 the
cleanup of contamlnated ground and surface water to protect the safety of
publlc and prlvate drlnklng water. 1: 15 antlclpated that thls initiative
will be addressed 1n a mm to be 1ntroduced 1n the General Assembly later
Page
33
CMA 039359
thls year? Separate leglslatlon Will be 1ntroduced that will focus solely
on the protectlon of groundwater.
New Jersey. The New Jersey Senate Energy and Envlronment Commlttee
has passed a mu whlch allows homeowners to petition the state to provlde
alternatlve water supplies when wells are contamlnated. Under the
leglslatlon. a homeowner could also petition the Department of
Envlronmental Protectlon to test a well for potentlal contamlnants. Funds
for replaclng contamlnated systems would come from the New Jersey Splll
Compensatlon Fund and a $10 million appropriatlon from general revenues.
The New Jersey Chemlcal Industry Councll testlfled on the mu cautlonlng
that Splll Fund monles should not be used for unnecessary well testlng.
Amendments to the mm from the DEP are expected.
Other Actlvltles. Members of the Hazardous Waste/ Groundwater Task
Group recently partlclpated 1n the Natlonal Conference of State
Leglslatures annual meetlng. CMA'S posltlon papers on groundwater
standards and groundwater monltorlng were hlghllghted durlng a sesslon on
leaklng underground storage tank dlscusslons. In addltlon, task group
members and CMA staff partlclpated 1n dlscusslons mm the Assoclatlon of
Washlngton Busmess on upcomlng testlmony on proposed drlnklng water
standards.
Transportatlon
New York. A leglslatlve package regulatlng the transportatlon of
hazardous materlals 1n New York falled to gain passage. The Leglslature,
however. approved and sent to the governor a mu m establlsh a board
composed of prlvate and publlc sector representatlves m revlew certaln
aspects of the hazardous materlals transportatlon issue. The board would
make recommendatlons m the Leglslature and the governor Hlthln a year.
Two cltles Denver, Colorado and Columbus. ohm have passed
ordlnances controlllng the shlpment of hazardous cargos, through thelr
Conflnes. Denver's City Councll passed an ordlnance whlch deslgnates
routes for class A or B exploslves, some poison materlals, organlc
peroxldes and radloactlve materlals. Permlts, as of July 1, are now
requlred for trucks carrylng hazardous materlals through the clty. The
cost of the pemlts Will be determlned by degree of rlsk, quantltles bemg
transported as well as addltlonal factors. Appllcants must deslgnate a
speclfled route for thelr trlp and show proof of liability coverage to get
the pemlts whlch will last for a year.
Columbus. ohm has 1mplemented an ordlnance whlch requlres through
shlpments of hazardous materlals m use a bypass around the clty and
speclfles hours of dellvery and permlts for dellverles of hazardous
shlpments 1n the downtown area.
The clty antlclpates that there Will be llmlted requests for such
pemlts but the permlt mechanlsm will result 1n better emergency
preparedness Since emergency personnel can be better 1nformed of speclflc
shlpments of hazardous materlals 1n heavlly populated areas.
Hazardous Materlals Transportatlon.
Members of the task group are
"age
34
CMA 039359
contlnulng to work mm members of the Good Samarltan Coalltlon to promote
the passage of good Samarltan leglslatlon 1n the states,
1n addltlon,
members of the group are worklng mm 1nd1v1dual state leglslators 1n New
Jersey, North Carollna and Georgla to expand exlstlng leglslatlon to cover
all hazardous materlals. not just LP gas.
Toxlc Alr
State Leglslatures. The two lssues recelvlng the most scrutlny at
the state level 1n 1995 are acld raln and toxlc air contamlnants.
Leglslatlon m requlre an 1nventory of nltrogen oxlde emlsslons and thelr
effect on the envlronment was enacted 1n Malne. Other states whlch have
passed resolutlons to study the acld raln lssue are Mlnnesota, Virginia,
Washlngton, Massachusetts, New Hampshlre and New York.
Laws whlch requlre programs to regulate air toxlcs were passed 1n
Arlzona and Rhode Island. and 1n Callfornla, a law was enacted whlch would
tax air toxlcs emlsslons 1n order to pay for state regulatory programs.
Hazardous air emlsslon 1nventor1es have also been a part of the
rlghtitoiknow debate at both the state and federal level. A comprehenslve
rlghtitoiknow law, recently enacted 1n West Virginia, 1ncludes provlslons
whlch requlre certaln manufactures m consolldate all federal, state and
local air emlsslons permlts and provlde them to the state. In Florlda,
leglslatlon was passed whlch requlres air emlsslons 1nventor1es, and 1n
Illinols, a mu m 1nventory emlsslons of as chemlcals was narrowly
defeated 1n the closmg days of the sesslon.
State Regulatlon. Programs to regulate toxlc alr contamlnants are
bemg developed and unplemented 1n nearly 40 states. Connectlcut
contlnues to work on 1:: flnal draft plan, and Vermont has recently
released 1:: plan to regulate hazardous air contamlnants. Industry
groups are closely monltorlng these actlvltles.
Strategy Development. In conjunctlon mm the Envlronmental
Management Commlttee's focus on 3 cm air toxlcs work plan, the State
Affalrs Toxlc Alr Task Group 15 preparlng strategles to work the lssue 1n
the states. A system 15 belng establlshed to closely monltor the
leglslatlve and regulatory actlvltles 1n speclflc mgmpnonty states and
the task group 15 belng expanded to 1nclude member companles mm
actlvltles 1n these states. Comnunlcatlon programs will be developed
whlch can be used to advocate cm polleles at the state level through
member companles and chemlcal 1ndustry counclls. The task group 15 also
worklng mm Varlous technlcal task groups to 1ntegrate state leglslatlve
and regulatory perspectlves 1nto CMA'S toxlc alr pollutant program.
Speclflc Chemlcal Research and Advocacy
Advocacy nghllghts
Allyl Chlorlde. The Program Panel declded m dlsband after 10 years
of actlvltles. The Panel undertook toxlcologlc research projects to
evaluate toxlclty potentlal and submltted research reports to government
35
CMA 039350
agencles. Regulatlon by EPA 15 posslble under the Clean Alr Act; however,
because of low toxlclty and exposure potentlals, the Agency has placed
allyl chlorlde at a Very low priority. The Panel may reconvene when the
Agency 1n1tlates actlvltles on the chemlcal.
Elbenzofurans/leenzodloxlns. The DF/DX Panel submltted comments to
EPA on plans for a TSCA Sectlon 4 monltorlng test rule. Whlle the Panel
1nfomed EPA that 1: questlons the Agency's authorlty m requlre
manufacturers to analyze products for trace contamlnants, they 1nd1cated a
wllllngness to cooperate to develop a reasonable test rule. The Panel
advocated the need for an analytlcal round robln to demonstrate reasonable
analytlcal parameters for a test rule. The Panel's Analytlcal Task Group
then met Hlth EPA technlcal staff to dlscuss the comments. The proposed
rule 1: Scheduled to be publlshed by EPA 1n November 1935.
Dow Chemlcal Company hosted an educatlonal semlnar for the DF/DX
Panel and Task Group members 1n Mldland, Mlchlgan. Varlous
representatlves from Dow Chemlcal Company and Monsanto Company
presented the latest 1nfomatlon on the health and envlronmental effects,
and the fate and envlronmental sources of dloxlns and furans. Tours of
Dow's Analytlcal and Toxlcology laboratorles were also arranged for the
attendees. The semlnar was extremely successful and provlded the Panel
mm a technlcal base from whlch to develop 1:: comments on Varlous EPA
proceedlngs.
Ethylhexanolc Acld. The EBA Panel submltted comments on the proposed
test rule on ethylhexanolc acld. The rule proposed subchronlc,
developmental and phamaaoklnetlcs testlng based upon concern that demal
exposure mlght occur durlng processlng. EBA 15 used solely as an
1ntemedlate 1n the synthesls of other chemlcals and 15 manufactured and
consumed entlrely 1n enclosed systems.
The Panel contented that exposure to EBA 15 so llmlted that there 15
no llkellhood that EBA could pose a Significant rlsk to workers,
regardless of the outcome of the proposed testlng. To obtaln addltlonal
1nfomatlon on potentlal exposure, the Panel 15 sponsorlng a survey of
users.
The Panel also consented on the ratlonale for requlrlng testlng,
statlng that the subchmmc and developmental testlng 15 unjustlfled and
the pharmacoklnetlcs testlng 15 needed only 15 effects are found 1n other
tests. Flnally, the Panel recommends streamllnlng the proposed
pharmacoklnetlcs testlng m provlde data 1n 3 more tlmely and costefflclent fashlon.
Fluorocarbons. In June. the companles supportlng the Fluorocarbon
Program approved a 51,915 million budget for calendar year 1935.
Th1: 15 a 3.5% 1ncrease over the 1995 budget.
Also 1n June, the Panel released Revlslon 21 of 1:: "SUMMARY:
Research Program on Effect of Chlorofluorocarbons on the Atmosphere." Th1:
annual publlcatlon detalls all research funded by the Panel 1n 1::
thlrteeniyear hlstory.
"age
35
CMA 039351
1
In August, the Panel submltted comments to EPA on four draft
documents prepared as part of the Envlronmental Impact Statement on the
effect of control measures for the protectlon of the ozone layer. EPA and
the Department of state are conductlng the E15 as background to the v.5.
posltlon on actlvltles under the mmp Conventlon for the Protectlon of the
Ozone Layer. In addltlon, a mmp resolutlon, calllng for further study to
address both short* and longitem strategles, 15 belng unplemented. A
mmp Steerlng Commlttee meetlng 15 planned for September 17719, 1935, 1n
London. to organlze workshops to be held Hlthln the next year.
Glycol Ethers. A Work Group of the Glycol Ether: Panel met mm EPA
staff to address remalnlng technlcal concerns mm 1ndustry data submltted
1n response to a TSCA Sectlon 4 ANPR on dlethylene glycol butyl ether and
1:5 acetate. EPA plans to announce 1:5 declslon on testlng needs 1n the
fall. and a Federal Reglster notlce 1: expected 1n spring 1995.
The Natlonal Toxlcology Program has three glycol ether: and thelr
respectlve acetates under revlew as candldate chemlcals for testlng 1n the
Program. The Panel 15 maintaining a close liaison mm M? and will
attempt to establlsh a CMA/NTP Work Group 15 the chemlcals are recommended
for testlng by the mp Executlve Commlttee.
Three trlethylene glycol ether: appeared on the 16th 1nteragency
Testlng Commlttee 115: of prlorlty chemlcals recommended for testlng under
TSCA Sectlon 4137. Panel members attended the EPA Publlc Focus Meetlng
and presently are 1nvolved 1n 1nformatlonigather1ng. 1: 15 posslble that
the Panel will sponsor demal absorptlon studles on these compounds 1n
advance of an EPA test rule proposal.
I
Ketones. The Ketones Panel members met Hlth EPA sclentlsts 1n June
to dlscuss dlfferences 1n 1nterpretatlon of the mutagenlclty test data on
MEK and mm gathered as part of a negotlated testlng agreement. The
Panel conslders the ten mutagenlclty tests to indicate no need for further
testlng on the two compounds. Extenslve comments backlng the Panel's
posltlon were ﬁlled Hlth the Agency. The EPA will respond by the end of
thls year.
Methylenedlanlllne. The mm Panel submltted comments on osaA's draft
Federal Reglster notlce announclng the Agency's plans to fom a negotlated
Rulemaklng Consolttee on MDA. OSHA 1ntends to establlsh a commlttee under
the Federal Advlsory Commlttee Act to negotlate lssues leadlng m a
proposed rulemaklng on MDA. The commlttee 15 to 1nclude representatlves
of the partles 1nterested 1n or affected by the outcome of the rulemaklng.
Naphthenates. The Naphthenates Panel completed the flrst phase of
1:5 demal absorptlon study on lead and cobalt naphthenates. The results
have been submltted to EPA under a 1994 agreement mm the Agency. The
Panel and EPA will dlscuss the need for addltlonal testlng 1n the near
future.
Dctylphenol. The Panel 15 revlewlng EPA'S comnents on a protocol for
an aquatlc chronlc effects study of octylphenol 1n ralnbow trout. The
Panel 1ntends to start testlng Within the next several weeks.
'age
37
CMA 039352
Dleylamlne. The Panel recently completed a mutagenlclty test on
oleylamlne and found the chemlcal to be devold of mutagenlc potentlal 1n
thls test system. The report of the Panelisponsored research was
submltted to relevant agencles.
Phosgene. Representatlves of the Phosgene Panel's Englneerlng and
Safety Practlces Task Group met Hlth the Department of Energy and thelr
contractor. Lawrence leemore Laboratory, to dlscuss conductlng an alr
dlsperslon study of phosgene. The Panel 15 1nterested 1n usmg the DDE'S
new quuefled Gaseous Fuels Splll Test Faclllty to evaluate Varlous
mltlgatlon devlces for accldental phosgene releases and to assess
dlfferent air dlsperslon models currently avaliable. The faclllty 15
bemg constructed at the DOE Nevada Test Slte.
Phthalate Esters. on behalf of the Phthalate Esters Panel. Dr.
Joseph Rodrlcks, of Envlron Corporatlon, Mr. Derek T111 of Arthur D.
thtlE, Inc., and Dr. Bernard Astlll of Eastman Kodak Company made
presentatlons m the Chronlc Hazard Advlsory Panel of the Consumer Product
Safety Commlsslon. The sclentlsts addressed three key lssues concernlng
the health effects of DEEP toxlcoloqy. exposure, and rlsk assessment.
Dr. Rodrlcks. a leadlng expert 1n rlsk assessment, concluded that the
1nd1v1dual llfetlme rlsk assoclated mm DEEPicontalnlng chlldren's
products 1: probably less than one 1n one hundred mllllon. Accordlng to
Mr. T111, ADL concluded that whlle the cps: exposure study 15 a useful
contrlbutlon to the llteraturE, 1: 15 1nadequate to fom the basls for an
exposure assessment. Dr. Astlll emphaslzed that there 15 overwhelmlng
evldence that DEEP 15 not a genotoxlc materlal.
Subsequently, the amp completed 1:: draft report on DEEP and
released 1: for publlc comment. The report concludes that DEEP 15 a
nonigenotoxlc carclnogen mm 1nductlon of peroxlsomes as 1:: probable
mechanlsm of actlon. Th1: mechanlsm, whlle not proven, would result 1n 3
threshold of exposure to DEEP below whlch there 15 no rlsk. The amp
recommended that research on mechanlsm of actlon and exposure contlnue.
The Phthalate Esters Panel declded not to proceed mm the second
phase of 1:5 envlronmental effects testlng program, whlch was part of the
1992 negotlated testlng agreement Hlth EPA. The Panel declslon resulted
from a meetlng mm the EPA Test Rules Development Branch (Tansy 1n May.
mm; 531d that 1: dld not 1ntend m revlew the Panel's Phase I proposal
before fall 1935. Furthermore. the Agency revealed an 1ntentlon to
publlsh a proposed test rule on butyl benzyl phthalate 1n October. The
proposed rule will prescrlbe substantlally more testlng than was agreed to
1n the negotlated testlng agreement. The addltlonal testlng would 1nclude
all studles that are requlred to establlsh a Water Quallty Standard on
BBP.
In a letter to EPA Asslstant Admlnlstrator Dr. John Moore, the Panel
stated that 1: 15 concerned that EPA mlght adopt a slmllar approach on
other p35. Efforts to perform further envlronmental testlng are
therefore suspended untll the Situation 15 clarlfled.
Tltanlum Dloxlde. The Natlonal Cancer Instltute has begun a
feaslblllty epldemlology study of tltanlumhdloxlde workers. Industry 15
Page
39
CMA 039353
cooperatlng fully 1n thls study to provlde mar Hlth necessary 1nformatlon
to make a declslon on whether to undertake a full epldemlology
study? NCI'S declslon 1: expected 1n March, 1935.
rrr...m1ty Awareness and Emergency Response (cum
Program Actlv1t1'~
CMA has sponsored seven CARR Workshops. The workshops were held 1n
San FranclscO, CA; Houston. TX; New Orleans, LA; Chlcago, IL; Newark, NJ;
Atlanta GA; and St. Louls, MD. Over 1500 CARR coordlnators and plant
managers attended these workshops. In addltlon, CMA provlded 1ndustry
brleflng teams to, and cosponsored reglonal CAER workshops mm, the West
Virginia Manufacturers Assoclatlon and the Michigan Chemlcal Industry
Councll.
Over 154 member and nonmember companles have asslgned CAER
coordlnators. Durlng August, CMA will ask the CAER coordlnators to
1dentlfy the number of sltes partlclpatlng 1n the program and the number
that have achleved the flrst CAER mllestone. The target date for the
flrst mllestone was July 1935. To achleve the flrst mllestone, plant
managers will have revlewed the CARR handbook, attended a CARR workshop,
and 1n1tlated dlscusslons Hlth local offlclals to set up coordlnatlng
groups.
To 55515: CAER coordlnators and plant managers 1n thelr communlty
outreach efforts. am has prepared a Videotape, 35mm sllde presentatlon
and CAER brochure. The Communlcatlons Department 15 maklng these
materlals avaliable to the 1ndustry.
CMA 15 coordlnatlng CAER'S 1mplementatlon mm federal agencles. The
response 15 supportlve. In fact, CMA presented the CARR and mum
programs at a Federal Emergency Management Agency 117mm teleconference on
June 25. The teleconference was broadcast to over 60,000 state and
local emergency response offlclals, 1ndustry representatlves and elected
offlclals.
Communlcatlons
Significant staff attentlon 15 bemg devoted to support of the
communlty awareness and emergency response program.
0 A speclal communlty awareness sectlon of the CARR workbook
was wrltten by a staff/member team to round out 1nstructlon
materlals.
0 Over 6,000 Copies of the CAER workbook have been
dlstrlbuted.
0 Two hundred sets of a communlcatlon package 1nclud1ng Video
tape, brochures and a sllde presentatlon have been sold.
”age
39
CMA 039354
0 September 17 an open communlcatlons commlttee meetlng will
focus on the communlcatlons role 1n communlty awareness.
Presentatlons Will be made by small, medlum, and large
companles.
o The Communlcatlons Commlttee has recrulted a pool of
communlcatlon consultants from member companles who will
offer asslstance to members wlthout communlcatlons staff.
0 A CAER newsletter to exchange 1nformatlon about how
companles are 1mplement1ng the program 15 bemg
dlstrlbuted.
o A speclal reglonal communlcatlons grant has been made to
the New Jersey Chemlcal Industry Councll to develop a model
communlty awareness program.
111.
DEPARTMENTAL woman moms
Offlce off the Presldent
Internatlonal Affaerralnlng 1n Developlng Countrles. The World Envlronment Center
wmcy. under flnanclal support from the v.5. Agency for Internatlonal
Development (AID), has recently completed the flrst of a number of country
Visits almed at unprovlng the health, envlronment, and safety of people 1n
1ndustrlal facilities. The unlt whlch wm sent to Tunlsla 1ncluded a
representatlve from The Dow Chemlcal Company and one from Tenneco, Inc.
The team submltted a 115: of correctlve actlons whlch would greatly
1mprove the envlronmental safety and health standards of the plants they
Visited. A second group, whlch Hill 1nclude a representatlve from
Dccldental Chemlcal Corporatlon, 1: scheduled to go to Indla later 1n the
month. That Will be followed by Visits to Jordan and other developmg
mddle eastern natlons that have requested asslstance.
Addltlonally, AID has 1nd1cated wllllngness to pay for translatlon of
the CAER Handbook 1nto Arable and French. WE: people and AID offlclals
are extremely compllmentary about the CARR Handbook and are anxlous to
begln the translatlon.
Assoclatlon Liaison
The Councll of Chemlcal Assoclatlons met on July 17 and dlscussed
Superfund, rlghtitoiknow, CARR, toxlc air, state leglslatlve initiatives
and other lssues. The next meetlng 1: Scheduled for September 13.
Member Servlces
Plans are actlvely underway for the Flfth Annual Meetlng of State
Chemlcal Drganlzatlons. The meetlng Will be held October 22724 at the
wage
4n
CMA 039355
0 FEMA 15 dlscusslng mandatory emergency response
preparedness programs for areas surroundlng chemlcal
plants.
0 EPA, OSHA, and mm are dlscusslng the need for natlonal
strategles and mandatory standards to manage hazardous
substances 77 too often they allude to programs that
parallel those regulatlng the nuclear 1ndustry.
Press, Agency, Professlonal Assoclatlon, and Congresslonal
spokespersons are castlng a dangerous llluslon that our 200 year old
chemlcal 1ndustry 15 decaylng and that 1: 15 just beglnnlng to spring
leaks. Th1: llluslon strlkes at the heart of our 1ndustry's lmage as a
progresslVE, hlgh technology. modem 1ndustry leadlng the way 1nto the
21:: century.
Offlce of General Counsel
Conference on Insurance and the Chemlcal Industry. on August 29,
1935, a conference was held for cm members on INSURANCE AND THE CHEMICAL
INDUSTRY; PROBLEMS AND PROSPECTS. Drganlzed by the Offlce of General
Counsel, the conference was held to explore problems of 1n5urance
unavallablllty and posslble solutlons.
Among the toplcs dlscussed 1ncluded: the avaliablllty of 1nsurance
today; developments 1n the liability arena; congresslonal and EPA
perspectlves on 1n5urance lssues,’ and customlzed solutlons, pools,
captlves and other arrangements.
Communlcatlons
CMA Annual Report. The 199471935 report has been completed and 1: 1n
dlstrlbutlon. As has been practlce for the past two years the report
presents a retrospectlve and prospectlve Vlew of major 1ndustry lssues.
Communlcatlons Support for State Leglslatlve and Regulatory Actlvlty
o A new manual on linking advocacy communlcatlon technlques
to state leglslatlve actlvlty has been prepared and
dlstrlbuted to each cm.
0 An 59,000 seed grant has been made to the Callfornla cm to
carry out a project targeted at thought leaders 1n Contra
Costa County.
Page
42
CMA 039357
sxarm a
Report
Internatlonal
m the Board
September
of the
Affalrs Group
of Dlrectors
10, 1995
By
Thomas w. Mooney, Vice Chalman
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
the last flscal year brought a serles of remarkable achlevements for the me.
;n addltlon m the September 1994 meetlngs Hlth the Japan Chemlcal Industry
Assoclatlon 1n Tokyo and the Australlan Chemlcal Industry Councll 1n Canberra,
Australla. the ma met formally for the flrst tune Hlth members of the Canadlan
chemlcal Producers Assoclatlon 1n Toronto 1n May 1935. Durlng thls same time
perlod. dlscusslons were 1n1tlated mm the European Councll of Chemlcal
Manufacturers' Federatlons (CEFIC7 m establlsh an 1nternatlonal worklng party
of experts under the ausplces of the Safety of Chemlcals Commlttee of CEFIC and
the Internatlonal Affalrs Group of CMA/SDCMA, along mm the Canadlan Chemlcal
Producers Assoclatlon. m establlsh sclentlflc crlterla for 1dentlfy1ng and
classlfylng carclnogens, mutagens and teratogens. The group met flrst 1n Aprll
1995 1n Brussels and subsequently 1n Washlngton 1n June, to produce harmonlzed
crlterla for identifying such chronlc hazards.
Prellmlnary presentatlons of
thls trlpartlte agreement 1n 1:: draft form were glven to the Sclence Advlsory
soard to EPA and to the Offlce of Management and Budget. Followlng ratlflcatlon
hy the sponsorlng organlzatlons, thls document will be presented formally to
the respectlve government agencles.
The ma Hill contlnue to work Hlth 1::
European, Canadlan, and Japanese counterparts to brlng about a better
understandlng of and sclentlflc consensus on unportant future health, safety,
and envlronmental lssues.
CMA 039359
IAG's Major Accompllshments 1n 199471935
0
Joint IAG/JCIA Meetlng
on September 24 and 25th the Internatlonal Affalrs Group met mm
representatlves of JCIA...3 Chemlcal Safety Control Commlttee (csccy
at the latter's Tokyo offlces. For ms thls was the second of three
such meetlngs thls year Hlth chemlcal 1ndustry trade assoclatlons of
other countrles.
These meetlngs addressed lssues arising from th
laws and regulatlons 1ntended to reduce chemlcal rlsks to health,
safety, and the envlronment.
ms and JCIA had earller exchanged dlscusslon papers on each issue.
These 1ncluded current status and proposed changes 1n TSCA and 1n
Japan's Chemlcal Substance Control Law.
Chemlcal 1nventor1ES,
testlng of new and exlstlng substances, labellng, protectlon of
confldentlal 1nformat10n, speclflc chemlcal 1dent1ty of substances,
and lssues 1nvolv1ng the export and import of hazardous substances,
partlcularly as proposed 1n the man Recommendatlon and WE?
Provlslonal Notlflcatlon Scheme. were also toplcs of exchanges
between the two groups.
U.S.*Japan actlvltles to 1mplement 0mm recommendatlons on Good
Laboratory Practlces were dlscussed.
The effect of v.5. rlghticoi
know laws, as these 1nteract mm labellng and confldentlallty und r
OSHA and TSCA, were also toplcs of dlscusslon.
The meetlng achleved the followlng: agreed to 1mplement DECD...5 Good
Laboratory Practlces, 1dent1£1ed, dlfferences between JCIA and ms
1ntezpretatlons of draft proposals of "mm: Guldes to Traders and
Manufacturers“ 1n the export of hazardous substances. JCIA and ms
agreed to work together to resolve these dlfferences Hithln the
framework of oEcD's Buslness and Industry Advlsory Councll.
0
Joint IAG/ACIC Meetlng
The ma met 1n Canberra. Australla. on September 27 and 2a, 1994,
mm members of the Australlan Chemlcal Industry Councll (ACIC).
Dlscusslons were focused on Australla's proposed law to 1mplement
the
...Not1£1catlon and Assessment Scheme for New Chemlcals.‘
Representatlves from two Australlan State Governments, Victoria and
New South Wales. also partlclpated 1n the meetlngs. The Australlan
Government has announced that mandatory natlonwlde notlflcatlon and
assessment for chemlcals new to Australla would be unplemented by
July 1935. The scheme 15 patterned on the EEC 5mm Amendm nt. The
prospectlve manufacturer/lmporter of a new chemlcal 15 requlred t
provlde
1nfomatlon
Similar
to that speclfled for Premarket
Notlflcatlons 1n EEC.
Durlng the course of the meetlng the ma
delegatlon mentloned many concerns and problems mm the proposed
Australlan leglslatlon.
As a threat result of these dlscussl ns,
the Australlan Government has agreed to serlously revlew and modlfy
thelr
leglslatlve
initiative, and the unplementatlon of that
leglslatlon has been slgnlflcantly delayed.
CMA 039359
The ACIC and ms agreed on the need to protect confldentlallty of
trade secret chemlcal identities of substances. and the group agreed
to
revlew unplementatlon of the Prlnclples of Good Laboratory
Practlce, worker and communlty rlghtitoiknow laws, and the exchange
of 1nformatlon on the export of hazardous substances.
0
Joint IAG/CCPA Meetlng
on 29 and an May 1935, the ma met mm the Canadlan Chemlcal
Producers Assoclatlon 1n Toronto. Canada.
The format for the
meetlng was that of a regularly scheduled (:ch meetlng, where ms
1nv1ted guests were asked to comment, where approprlate.
The
dlscusslon lasted for two days and 1ncluded:
a. a complete presentatlon of the Canadlan Workplace Hazardous
Materlals Infomatlon System (warns) pollcy framework and revlew of
the status of the Unlted States Dccupatlonal Safety & Health
Admlnlstratlon 1053A) proposal,
b. dlscusslon of rlsk assessment and rlsk management
leglslatlon.
c. dlscusslons of testlng and notlflcatlon as they appear 1n
the Envlronmental Contalnments ACt (1n Canaday;
d. export notlflcatlon from both the Unlted States and Canadlan
perspectlves,
e. regulatlon of substances 1n Canada,
5. dlscusslon of the DtAideveloped cm: and Ncaxc Programs (how
the cm: and NCSXC programs complement those now belng unplemented
1n Canada): and
g. dlscusslon of the Trlpartlte (IAG/CEFIC/CCPA7 worklng Group
on Chronlc Hazards.
x: was agreed that ms and 1:: members would revlew the wHst
lngredlent dlsclosure 115:, exchange key AXHC documents on rlsk
assessment, keep (1ch advlsed on reauthorlzatlon of the v.5. Toxlc
Substances Control Ash, and 55515: 1n obtalnlng full reclproclty 1n
the n. s. for Canadlan Tm; Segulatlons.
0
Joint IAG/CEFIC/CCPA Worklng Group on Chronlc Hazards
As a result of extenslve dlscusslons between the three organlze"
tlons. 1: was agreed that a group of envlronmental and health and
safety experts would convene 1n Aprll 1995 1n Brussels to lay out a
set of common deflnltlons of chronlc hazards. That effort produced
remarkably good agreement and the flrst of 1nternatlonal stature on
the envlronmental health or safety lssues 1nvolved.
A subsequent
meetlng 1n June 1n Washlngton resolved technlcal dlfferences Hithln
the group and, by the end of August 1935, the Joint IAG/CEPIC/CCPA
Trlpartlte Agreement should be ratlfled by the sponsorlng organur
tlons and be ready for publlcatlon.
CMA 039370
Copies of thls document will be sent to Approprlate v.5. governmental
agencles and m. the Varlous governmental agencles Hithln the European
Economlc Communlty, as well as m the Canadlan agencles responslble for
health, safety and the envlronment.
0
ms prepared and dellvered posltlon papers on 1nfomatlon exchange for
export of hazardous substances through the v. s. Buslness and Industry
Advlsory Commlttee and the v. 5. State Department to the Drganlzatlon for
Economlc Cooperatlon and Development Chemlcals Group and 1:: parent
Envlronment Commlttee.
ms has supported the purposes of the DECD Chemlcals Progranun , that 15,
m harmonlze chemlcals regulatlon 1n member countrles 1n an effort to
avold trade barrlers that may be caused by 1ncon515tent laws and
regulatlons.
We have. however. opposed efforts by some offlclals 1n the
0mm Secretarlat and member governments to turn the Programme 1nto an
1nternatlonal regulatory system.
We have also urged 1mplementatlon of
the past Chemlcals Programme actlvlty 1nto natlonal regulatory schemes
prior to 1n1tlatlon of any new areas of 1nvolvement from OECD.
Most omu countrles are just beglnnlng to develop thelr toxlc substances
control leglslatlon, and tune 15 needed for them to 1mplement thelr own
systems and m asslmllate exlstlng 0mm guldellnes before any addltlonal
substantlve 0mm actlvltles are undertaken.
ms bellev s that an
1nternatlonal agreement or treaty on chemlcals control 15 premature. ms
15 1ncreaslngly looked to by the 1J.s. Government and by the DECD as. the
key Volce representlng v.5. 1ndustry.
on a contlnulng basls, ms closely follows the agenda of oEcD's Chemlcals
Group, Management Commlttee, and thelr Varlous Expert Groups, consultlng
as necessary Hlth the offlclal v.5. Delegatlon to reglster v.5.
1ndustry's Vlews on key technlcal lssues
o
The ma has partlclpated 1n an 1ncreased dlalogue mm Varlous lem nts
of the Unlted Natlons.
Speclflcally, comments were submltted on UNEP'S
Provlslonal
Notlflcatlon
Guldellnes, on
the
Export
of
Hazardous
Substances.
The State Department has accepted our Vlews that 115mm;
banned. severely restrlcted, wlthdrawn or unapproved (1n the case of
pharmaceutlcals7 chemlcals 15 an 1napproprlate mechanlsm and that the:
terms are faulty wlthout further definition. An ad hoc task group of ms
has extenslvely researched pro's and son's of partlclpatlon 1n 3 jolntly
sponsored mmv/wcmy conference. proposed for late 1935, on the health
and safety aspects of transnatlonal corporatlons chemlcal operatlons 1n
developmg countrles. The task group has met Hlth representatlves of the
State Department, cane, and people from the corporate comnunlty m
dlscuss whether ms should partlclpate (as UNCTC has requested), or to
joln a 'umbrella organlzatlon" such as the Internatlonal Chamber of
Commerce and attend under thelr NGD status, or to wlthdraw from pari
tlclpatlon entlrely.
1: 1: expected that thls questlon Will be resolved
Within the next thlrty days.
Irrespectlve of the outcome, however, the ma Hill contlnue m 1mprove
1:5 liaison mm organlzatlons of the Unlted Natlons and Hlth those
elements 1n the prlvate sector deallng on a more threat basls mm th UN
groups.
CMA
CMA 039371
EXHIBIT I
a.3./CANADA BILATERAL TRADE AGREEMENT
Proposed cm Posltlon
gacx ground
Several years ago, the Canadlan government expressed 1nterest 1n
That proposal contalned
j nlnber of 1ndustrlal sectors 1nclud1ng petrochemlcals" The cm
Internatlonal Trade Conmlttee held several meetlngs mm the Canadlan
chMlcal Producers Assoclatlon 1mm Trade Conmlttee durlng 1993 and
1994~
followlng those meetlngs, concern was expressed that a
productibyiproduct or sectoral approach would probably not meet Hlth
acceptance by the v.5. chemlcal 1ndustry. The Trudeau Canadlan
government dld not make a formal request to the Unlted States to enter
1nto negotlatlons.
9: tons of bllateral free trade mm the v.5.
The Mulroney Canadlan government 15 also Interested 1n such a
trade negotlatlon mm the Unlted States.
However. the Canadlans
apparently have come to belleve that only an across*the*board
approach. not a sectoral approach, will recelve conslderatlon by the
131.5, government. In antlelpatlon of a Canadlan overture for a
bllateral negotlatlon, the CMA Internatlonal Trade Commlttee has
prepared the attached proposed posltlon statement.
Recommend atlon
That the followlng speclflc condltlons be met 1n order for any
bllateral trade agreement to exlst between the two countrles. These
condltlons would 1nclude t
o
a
o
o
o
balanced beneflts to both countrles;
Canadlan government pollcles whlch do not unduly
restrlct 1nvestment or feedstock
avaliablllty and prlce;
tarlff reductlons across the board rather than
sectoral basls;
adequate dlspute settlement procedures; and,
a requlrement for 70 percent Canadlan value
added for all ellglble goods.
ACTION REQUIRED;
Approval of recommended posltlon
CMA 039372
Approved. Internatlonal
Trade Commlttee
5/30/95
CMA Statement of Key Prlnclples
Concernlng a Ellateral
Free Trade Agreement Between
the Unlted States and Canada
Any bllateral free trade agreement must confer balanced
beneflts to both the Unlted States and Canada.
Negotlatlons on the elimination of preferentlal Canadlan
chemlcal feedstock and energy pollcles and forelgn
1nvestment restrlctlons must be an 1ntegral part of any v.5.
tarlff negotlatlons Hlth Canada.
In thls regard, the v.5.
Government must not commlt 1tself to any tarlff cuts prior
to obtalnlng Canadlan agreement to ellmlnate these
nonitarlff trade and 1nvestment barrlers.
Other nonitarlff trade barrlers. such as 1nadequate
protectlon of 1ntellectual property rlghts, should also be
consldered 1n any free trade negotlatlons between the Unlted
States and Canada.
The tarlff elimination components of a bllateral free trade
agreement between the Unlted States and Canada should
1nclude all chemlcals and related products and should not be
restrlcted to chemlcal 1ndustry subsectors or speclflc
products.
The v.5. government should consult mm the v.5. chemlcal
1ndustry and provlde adequate opportunltles for tlmely
1ndustry 1nput before and durlng v.5. negotlatlons Hlth
Canada.
Any free trade agreement should requlre that all products
ellglble for dutyifree entry 1nto the Unlted States under
the agreement must have a Canadlan value added level of 70
percent or greater, Hlth an unllmlted allowance pemltted
for the value of v.5. components.
A bllateral free trade agreement mm Canada should provlde
for the mandatory relmposltlon of dutles 1n the event of
nonifulflllment of the condltlons of the agreement.
Any bllateral free trade agreement mm Canada should
contaln an adequate and binding dlspute settlement
mechanlsm.
Free trade negotlatlons Hlth Canada should also address
other lssues, such as how temporary trade dlstortlons caused
by currency fluctuatlons and 1njury to a domestlc 1ndustry
by dutyifree entry of products will be handled, m avold
unpalrment of the beneflts under any bllateral free trade
agreement.
CMA 039373
CHEMICAL MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION:
comst on A BILATERAL FREE
TRADE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES
AND CANADA
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The followlng comments of the Chemlcal Manufacturers
Assoclatlon (cum on a posslble bllateral free trade agreement
between the Unlted States and Canada present lssues whlch CMA
belleves must be addressed by the Unlted States prior to enterlng
1nto any such agreement.
First, cm belleves that any bllateral free trade agreement .
must confer balanced beneflts to both the Unlted States and
Canada.
One country must not beneflt m the detrlment of the
other.
Second, CMA belleves that the longitem objectlve of such a
free trade agreement 15 to achleve an open envlronment for
1nternatlonal trade and 1nvestment unencumbered by barrlers and
governmental 1nterventlon 1n the marketplace.
In thls regard, we
belleve that any free trade agreement must address nonitarlff
barrlers to trade.
For example, we belleve that negotlatlons on
the elimination of preferentlal Canadlan chemlcal feedstock and
energy pollcles and forelgn 1nvestment restrlctlons must be an
1ntegral part of any v.5. free trade negotlatlons mm Canada.
CMA 039374
Moreover. we belleve that other nonitarlff trade barrlers. such
as 1nadequate protectlon of 1ntellectual property rlghts, should
also be consldered 1n any free trade negotlatlons between the two
countrles.
CMA 15 aware that the Admlnlstratlon 15 evaluatlng the
merlts of the posslble establlshment of a subsectoral free trade
arrangement mm Canada on petrochemlcals.
Moreover. the
Canadlan chemlcal 1ndustry has proposed that any such
negotlatlons address only certaln products 1n the petrochemlcal
subsector.
CMA 15 opposed to any chemlcal 1ndustry product or
subsectoral approach.
Instead, we belleve that any tarlff
negotlatlons Hlth Canada, coupled as 1nd1cated above Hlth
negotlatlons on nonitarlff barrlers. must address all chemlcals
and related products.
To ensure the effectlveness of the tarlff elimination
component of a free trade agreement Hlth Canada, any such
agreement should requlre that all products ellglble for dutyifree
entry 1nto the Unlted. States under the agreement have a Canadlan
value added level of at least 70 percent of the value of the
product.
The value of v.5. origin raw materlals or other
components 1ncorporated 1nto a Canadlan product 1n Canada should
be consldered Canadlan value added for purposes of the 70 percent
test.
CMA 039375
Moreover. CMA belleves that a free trade agreement Hlth
Canada should:
provlde for the relmposltlon of dutles 1n the
event of nonifulflllment of agreement condltlons; address 0th r
lssues, such as how temporary trade dlstortlons caused by
currency fluctuatlons and 1njury m a domestlc 1ndustry by
dutyifree entry of products will be handled; and contaln an
adequate and binding dlspute settlement mechanlsm (the dlspute
settlement provlslons contalned 1n the U.S./Israell agreement are
not adequate 1n our opmmny.
Flnally, cm belleves that 1: 15 absolutely essentlal that
r
the v.5. Admlnlstratlon provlde adequate and tlmely opportunltles
for chemlcal 1ndustry 1nput before undertaklng any free trade
negotlatlons Hlth Canada, as well as durlng any negotlatlon
process.
CMA urges the utlllzatlon of the Industry Sector
Advlsory Commlttee (ISAC) for thls process.
However. we belleve
that other 1ndustry groups, such as our own Assoclatlon, must
also be 1ncluded 1n thls consultatlve process.
CMA belleves that, 15 the lssues dlscussed 1n our comments
are consldered by the Unlted States Government before
negotlatlons Hlth Canada begln and 15 they are adequately
addressed 1n any free trade agreement mm Canada, then trade
beneflts mutually advantageous to both countrles are achlevable
through such an agreement.
CMA 039375
HEMICAL MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION:
c ENTS DN A BILATERAL FREE
m AGREEMENT BETWEEEN THE UNITED STATES
AND NADA
mum venue
The Un ted States and Canadlan Governments are conslderlng
the des rablllty of a bllateral free trade agreement between the
two cou rles.
As a par of thls analysls, the Unlted States
Internatl nal Trade Commlsslon (USITC7 and the 1nteriagency Trade
pollcy s: cc Commlttee (TPSQ are currently investigating the
probable e onomc effect of provldlng dutyifree treatment for
selected 1 arts from Canada.
The results of these
1nve5t1gat1 n5 are 1ntended to 35515: the Presldent 1n assesslng
the unpact o establlshlng bllateral free trade 1n selected
1ndustry sub actors, 1nclud1ng certaln petrochemlcals.
The Chemlcal anufacturers Assoclatlon wlshes to make the
followlng co ants on a bllateral free trade agreement between
the Unlted 5: es and Canada.
The Chemlcal M nufacturers
Assoclatlon 1c 7 15 a nonproflt trade assoclatlon whose member
companles repre an: more than an percent of the productlve
capaclty of has a 1ndustrlal chemlcals 1n the Unlted States.
The comments Go talned 1n thls paper are not dlrected :9
Either the USITC or the TPSC 1nvest1gatlon.
Rather. they pre ent
lssues whlch cm elleves must be addressed by the v.5.
Government prior 0 enterlng 1nto any bllateral free trade
agreement mm (15 ads.
CMA 039377
GENERAL comst
The Unlted States nd Canada are each other...s largest
tradlng partner.
The total trade bet een the two countrles 1n
1994 equalled 5113 111mm
Chemlcal trade repr sent: a
substantlal portlon c thls flgure.
In 1934, Canadlan ch mlcal
exports to the Unlte States were about $3.13 bllllon. and Unlted
States chemlcal expo ts to Canada totalled 52.75 bllllon.
Th1:
reflects a 199‘ chemlcal trade balance of about $379 million 1n
The chemlcal 1 dustry of each country has substantlal threat
1nvestment 1n he other country.
In many cases, Canadlan
subsldlarles o v.5. companles produce 1ntemedlate or flnlshed
products, not -nly for the Canadlan market, but also for the
Unlted States -nd thlrd country markets.
In addltlon. t e strengths of the v.5. and Canadlan chemlcal
1ndustr1es comlement each other.
Canada has a rah base 1n
natural resour e5, especlally 1n hydrocarbons, Hlth 1nstalled
capaclty for l-rge Volumes of certaln baslc chemlcals and 1nteri
medlates.
The Unlted Sta as has a hlghly developed baslc
chemlcal and d-wnstream chemlcal processlng 1ndustry, as well as
capaclty to pr-duce a Varlety of commodlty chemlcals.
The Unlted
...’~U.s. Dep't. of Commerce, Bureau of Census“ nghllghts of
v.5. Export an Import Trade (”990: December, 19347.
cm 039379
States also ha the world's largest market for products of the
chemlcal 1ndus ry.
III. SPECIFIC omst
Any Ellateral res Trade Agreement Must Confer Balanced
Beneflts to Bo h the Unlted States and Canada.
cm belleves t at the beneflts of any bllateral agreement
must be even? .nded; one country must not beneflt m the
detrlment of t a other.
The statutory.uthor1ty.for such
agreements suuorts thls contentlon.
Sectlon 102 of the Trade
Act of 1974, .5 amended by Sectlon 401 of the Trade and Tarlff
Act of 1934,
1nd1cates that such negotlatlons should be
conducted on the basls of mutuallty.
Moreover. the leglslatlve
hlstory of th-1984 Act states the 1ntentlon of Congress that
bllateral agr-ements of the sort proposed Hlth Canada must be
"reclprocal a d mutually advantageous....
$21127, as am.nded by Sectlon 401157 127 of the Trade and Tarlff
cm 039379
Any Free Trad. Agreement mm Canada Must Address
NoniTarlff Ba rlers m Trade~
Negotlatlons -n the Ellmlnatlon of Preferentlal Canadlan
Chemlcal Feedtock and Energy Pollcles and Forelgn
Investment Retrlctlons Must be an Integral Part of Any Free
Trade Negotla lons Hlth Canada.
cm belleves mat the negotlatlons between the Unlted States
and Canada on a bllateral free trade agreement should not be
llmlted to th subject of tarlfficuttlng.
The ellmlnatl-n of
trade dlstort ons caused by preferentlal Canadlan chemlcal
feedstock and energy polleles and by Canadlan forelgn 1nvestment
restrlctlons us: also be adequately addressed 1n such
negotlatlons.
Furthemore/ e belleve that the v.5. Gov rnment
must not comm t 1tself to ellmlnatlng any tarlffs prior to
obtalnlng Can.dlan agreement to ellmlnate the trade dlstortlng
effects of thse restrlctlve pollcles.
Ample support for the
1ncluslon of onitarlff barrlers 1n such negotlatlons 15 found 1n
the Trade Act of 1974 and the Trade and Tarlff Act of 1934.
Sectlons 1021.7/ 103 and 105 of the Trade Act of 1974 119
cm 039390
Canadlan Raw Materlal and Energy Pollcles
cm belleves -hat the 1nternal energy pollcles unplemented
under the Camdlan Natlonal Energy Pollcy
mum» have h.d an
adverse effec on market mechanlsms 1n Canada and on Canadlan
trade mm th Unlted States 1n energyirelated products, such as
chemlcals.
We understand that the amp 1: under revlew by the
Canadlan govenment and 15 llkely to be changed.
In any case, .5
part of a bll.teral free trade agreement, we urge that the Unlted
States Gover ent ensure that present and future Canadlan
governments' eedstock supply, price, and access pollcles do not
serve as 3 ha rler to otherwlse falr Competltlon.
Th1: 15 neces ary m avold the creatlon, or pezpetuatlon, of
an artlflclal advantage for the producers of one country over
those of the ther.
Such an assur.nce 15 partlcularly unportant
to 1ndustr1es such as the petrochemlcal 1ndustry, for whlch
feedstock prllng and avaliablllty are crltlcal because the cost
of feedstock: represents the largest element of cost for many
petrochemlcal products.
If the trade wlstortlng effects of the
Canadlan gove nments' pollcles mm respect to the supply and
price of, and access to. petrochemlcal feedstock: are not
neutrallzed. hen those Canadlan pollcles will largely determlne
the condltlon of competltlon 1n 1nternatlonal trade 1n
petrochemlcal between the Unlted States and Canada, undermlnlng
the worklngs .5 an open market system.
cm 039391
Canadlan Invetment Pollcy
The Unlted St.tes Government must address dlfferences 1n
1nvestment po lay between the Unlted States and Canada to ensure
that v.5. co anles Hlshlng to 1nve5t 1n the Canadlan chemlcal
1ndustry are 0: subject to dlfferent or more strlngent
requlrements han are Canadlan 1nvestors 1n Canada.
In 1993; 3 Ge eral Agreement on Tarlffs and Trade (GATT)
panel found t e Canadlan Forelgn Investment Revlew Act 11mm to
be 1n vlolatl-n of GATT Artlcle III because 1mm made approval
to
e
1nve5t 1n Can-da contlngent upon a forelgn 1nvestor's acceptance
of often oner-us perfomance requlrements to whlch domestlc
Canadlan 1nvetors were not subject.
We understan that the Canadlan Government has begun to
admlnlster FI'A 1n 3 less restrlctlve manner and that the
Canadlan Parlament has passed the "Investment Canada Act" as
nay: repla ﬂuent.
whlle thls ne leglslatlon 15 supposed to
llberallze t - requlrements mposed on forelgn 1nvestors, s v ral
restrlctlons 111 remain, especlally on forelgn acqulsltlons of
exlstlng Can.1an companles.
1: remalns :- be seen how the new
Act will be 1 plemented.
..."General reement on Tarlffs and Trade, Report of the
Panel. Canad.Adm1n15tratlon of the Forelgn Investment Revlew
...Introduce 1n the House of Commons on December 7, 1934.
cm 039392
In any event, CMA urges the Unlted States Government to seek
the ellmlnat on of dlscrlmlnatory Canadlan 1nvestment
restrlctlons. other than those deallng mm natlonal securlty,
prior to fln.llzlng a tarlfficuttlng agreement Hlth Canada.
Other NoniTalff Trade Barrlers, Such as Inadequate
Protectlon 0 Intellectual Property nghts, Should Also be
Consldered 1 Any Free Trade Negotlatlons Between the Unlted
States and C.nada.
There 15 gro mg recognltlon 1n the Unlted States and abroad
that the effctlve protectlon of 1ntellectual property rlghts 15
essentlal m 1ncreased 1nnovatlon and productlvlty and 15 a Vital
part of 1nte-natlonal trade declslons.
Provlslons a mad at
encouraglng -uch protectlon 1n other countrles are contalned 1n
the Trade an Tarlff Act of 1934, ...~
the toplc 15 belng 1ncluded
1n numerous llateral trade and 1nvestment negotlatlons, and
efforts are nderway by some 1ndustry groups to have 1ntellectual
property rlg ts 1ncluded 1n 3 new round of multllateral trade
negotlatlons
In thls contxt, cm urges the Unlted States Government to
address the ssue of protectlon of 1ntellectual property rlghts
as part of a y free trade negotlatlons mm Canada.
Canada has
tradltlonall recognlzed the 1mportance of provldlng such
and Tar17l.. Acto7 1994; 99 Stat. 3001, anus, 3019 and 3021.
cm 039393
protectlon.
However. som- problem areas remaln, for example, 1n
the pharmace tlcal Eleld.
We belleve tat a free trade agreement
Hlth Canada hould 1nclude a resolutlon of these lssues, as well
as provlslon ellmlnatlng any other nonitarlff trade barrlers
that may exl t.
The Tarlff E 1m1natlon Components of a Free Trade
Agreement wlh Canada Must be Ef?ect1ve.
The Tarlff E 1m1natlon Components of A Ellateral
Free Trade Areemenphetween the Unlted Statesand Canada
skould Incluwe All Chemlcals and Related Products and Not be
Restrlcted w Chemlcal Industry Subsectorsor Speclflc
Products.
A key lssue n the U.S.*Canada negotlatlons 15 whether
import dutle or tarlffs Will be ellmlnated "across the board" or
only on spec cm 1ndustry sectors, subsectors, or products.
cm 15 opposd to any chemlcal 1ndustry product or subs choral
approach.
Instead, we elleve that tarlff negotlatlons mm
Canada must -ddress all chemlcals and related products.
We
belleve such broader negotlatlons offer greater potentlal for
mutual trade beneflts.
cm 039394
Any Free Trae Agreement mm Canada Should Requlre That All
products 311mm for DutyiFree Entry Into the Unlted States
Under~the Ag semen: Must Have a Canadlan Value Added Level 1nclucT1nqr the Value of v.5. Origin Components* of at Least
70 Percent o the Value of the Product.
A minimum is el of "Canadlan value added" must be a
condltlon fo dutyifree entry 1nto the Unlted States under a
bllateral fr-e trade agreement mm Canada.
Th1: crlterl-n would
be fully conlstent mm the goal of enhanced U.S./Canadlan trade
and would help to prevent potentlal abuses of a speclal trade
relatlonshlp through transshlpment practlces.
The value aded
threshold run: be high enough to prevent products of mum
countrles be my passed through Canada to the Unlted States after
only formula ion or mlnor flnlshlng operatlons have been
performed 1n Canada.
cm urges :h.: the minimum domestlc Canadlan value added in
set at 70 pe cent of the appralsed value of the product at the
time of ant , rather them the 35 percent requlred under the
Generallzed ystem of Preferences, the Carlbbean Basln Economlc
Recovery Act, and the proposed bllateral free trade agreement
Hlth Israel.
A hlgher pe centage 15 necessary 1n an agreement
Hlth Canada necause Canada 15 not a developlng country and should
not he give the llberal domestlc value added requlrements that
have been my anted as a concesslon to such countrles.
In
addltlon, A recommends that the value of v.5. origin raw
materlals 0 other components 1ncorporated 1nto a Canadlan
product 1n Ianada be consldered to be Canadlan value added for
purposes of the 70 percent test to promote bllateral trade.
cm 039395
A Free Trad Agreement mm Canada Should Provlde for the
Mandatory” 'elmposltlon of Dutles 1n the"Event of
NoniFulflll ent of the Condltlons of the Agreement.
Any U.S./Ca ada bllateral free trade agreement should
1nclude a "-napiback" provlslon under whlch Unlted States import
dutles elm hated under the agreement automatlcally return to
column 1 rales 15 the condltlons of the free trade agreement are
no longer 5 lfllled.
For example, 15 1nvestment restrlctlons
were relmpo-ed by Canada or 15 Canada mposed a new nonitarlff
barrler m .s. exports, then the dutles on unports from Canada
should snap back.
Free Trade egotlatlons mm Canada Should Also Address
Other IssuE', Such as How Temporary Trade Dlstortlons Caused
by Currency Fluctuatlons and Injury to a Domestlc Industry
by Dutxkhre Entry of Products W111 be Handled, m Avold
Impalrment ms the Beneflts Under Any Ellateral Free Trade
Agreement.
Two dlfflcu t subjects that am belleves must also in
addressed u the context of bllateral free trade negotlatlons
Hlth Canada are how to handle temporary trade dlstortlons caused
by currency fluctuatlons and what to do 15 a domestlc 1ndustry 15
1njured by he dutyifree entry of products under an agreement.
Conslderatlnn should be given to 1mposltlon of a surcharge to
correct the temporary trade dlstortlons 1n the flrst 1nstance and
to imposltlln of temporary safeguard dutles to ellmlnate the
1njury 1n t a second.
In thls reg rd, CMA assumes the v.5.
unfalr trad statutes Hill contlnue to apply to 1mports fr In
Canada.
cm 039395
Any Ellater-l Free Trade Agreement mm Canada Should
Contaln an dequate and Elndlng Dlspute Settlement
Mechanlsm.
cm belleve that any bllateral free trade agreement Hlth
Canada shoud contaln procedures for the settlement of dlsputes
between Camda and the Unlted States that arlse under the
agreement.
We do not blleve that the procedures contalned 1n
the propose U.S./Israell agreement are adequate for thls
purpose.
Instead, we recommend that dlspute settlement procedures 1n
any U.S./Ca ada agreement:
settlement .5 dlsputes;
provlde for a rapid and effectlv
contaln me anlsms for a blndlng
declslon 1 the event of a stalemate; and. most 1mportantly,
provlde to significant 1ndustry 1nput 1n the dlspute settlement
process.
The v.5. G- ernment Should Consult mm the v.5.
Chemlcal I ustry and Provlde Adequate Opportunltles
for Tlmely Industry Input Before and Durlng v.5,
Negotlatlo mm Canada.
A5 mandate by the Trade Act of 1974, and reafflmed 1n th
Trade Agra. ants Act of 1979,
a structur. of formal 1ndustry
sector adv sory commlttees (Isms) representlng v.5. companles
from all s-gments of v.5. busmess 1: 1n place.
There 15 a
as amended m: Sectlon 1103 of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979,
Jrstat. Jdlllo.
cm 039397
wldespread perceptlon that the ISAC: were not advlsed or
consulted .dequately 1n the course of developlng the U.S./Israel
Free Trade Agreement nor 1n earller and subsequent v.5.
Government dlscusslons mm Mexlco whlch led to the Signing of.
the U.S./M-x1can Subsldles Agreement.
cm strong y urges the
v.5. Gover ant to avall 1tself fully of thls mechanlsm for
ellcltlng rlvate sector 1nput on a tlmely basls 15 any
consultatl-ns on a U.S./Canada bllateral agreement proceed.
Moreover. a belleve that approprlate mechanlsms must exlst
to allow fr addltlonal 1ndustry input, such as from cm and
other trad- assoclatlons, 1nto any such negotlatlons so that all
Slgnlflcan conslderatlons can be addressed prior to any
commltment- havlng been made.
commsmu
cm belleV-s that, 15 the lssues ralsed 1n thls paper are
consldered by the Unlted States Government before negotlatlons
Hlth Canad.beg1n and are adequately addressed 1n any free trade
agreement 1th Canada, then trade beneflts mutually advantageous
to both contrles are achlevable through such an agreement.
am
am mazes
r
exhlblt j,
I
REVIEW OF ‘ A GRovNDwATER woman
AMD
PRoPosED PLICY 0N snowuwzaran PROTECTION
1
I
1
Th1: press tatlon 15 1ntended to revlew the development of CMA'S
groundwate program and to request approval of one new element of DlA's evolvmg
groundwate pollcy.
Groundwate 15 an 1mportant natural resource. 1: has many and Varled uses
1nclud1ng rlnklng water supplles, crop irrigation, llvestock waterlng and
1ndustrlal water supplles. Approxlmately 50a of all Amerlcans obtaln all or
part of th-lr drlnklng water from groundwater sources.
Recently goundwater lssues have come to the forefront. Many groundwater
lssues are or soon will be before Congress, EPA, state leglslatures and
regulatory agencles, and on the agendas of envlronmental groups, 1ndustry groups,
and conse us organlzatlons ~
0
Senator u renberger 15 currently holdlng overslght hearlngs
on ground ater. Senator Durenberger Hill 1ntroduce
groundwat-r leglslatlon 1n September 1995 whlch may
Slgnlflca tly affect chemlcal 1ndustry operatlons (siting,
transport.tlon, product use, waste dlsposaly.
o
In 1935, 35 groundwater related mm: were 1ntroduced 1n 25
states. 24.5: mil: contaln provlslons whlch slgnlflcantly
unpact chmlcal 1ndustry operatlons. An even greater level
of state.ct1v1ty 1: expected 1n 1935.
0
Some stats, such as Wlsconsln and Florlda have enacted
detalled eglslatlon for groundwater management programs.
0
EPA recen-ly developed and 15 movlng m unplement a groundwater protectlon strategy.
0
Consensus groups, such as the Conservatlon foundatlon and the
Natlonal ater Alllance have conned task groups to address
the issue'.
0
other trae assoclatlons such as NACA. 50cm and NEDA are
developm pollcy statements.
0
Blvlronmstal groups such as mum, EDF and EPI (Envlronmental
Pollcy In tltute7 are addresslng the lssue 1n Varlous forums.
am 03939
cm Dbjec 1Ve
To achlev a beneflclal balance between chemlcal 1ndustry operatlons and
protectlo of human health and aquatlc resources.
Elements nd Status of cm Groundwater Pollcy
cm 15 de eloplng a comprehenslve groundwater management pollcy whlch
addresses federal and state leglslatlve and regulatory responslbllltles. CMA'S
posltlon m the federal/state split contlnues m be that:
0
states sh-uld have responslblllty for deflnlng. Implementlng
and enfor mg groundwater management programs.
0
the feder-l government should provlde guldance, technlcal
transfer .nd funds to 31:: states 1n thelr efforts.
CMA'S gro ndwater management pollcy will address all crltlcal aspects of
the grounwater issue. These aspects 1nclude groundwater standards, monltorlng,
use class flcatlon, groundwater protectlon and product handllng. cm actlons t
date are ummarlzed 1n Table 1.
Proposed roundwater Protectlon Pollcy
The prop-ed groundwater protectlon pollcy 15 before the Board of Dlrectors
for appr- 51. Th1: pollcy states that groundwater 15 an 1mportant natural
resource hat must be protected.
States h. e the leadershlp role 1n protectlng and managlng thls resource,
and shou - act on these responslbllltles by developmg and 1mplement1ng
groundwa er management progmas. Groundwater quallty protectlon programs are an
1ntegral part of broader groundwater management program.
As state develop thelr protectlon progmas, cm recamends that states
conslder 1nst1tut1ng requlrements for approprlate faclllty deslgn and operatlng
practlce developed by each faclllty that Hill minimise the release of
pollutan-s (groundwater protectlon practlces).
Also. an recognlses that states may choose to 1nst1tute the c llowlng
practlce- as part of a groundwater management progral 37 a groundwater
wlthdraw.l program to protect groundwater quallty, by land use plannlng 1n areas
where th potentlal for adverse 1mp acts from groundwater contaln Stlon from
future atlvltles are Significant) e7 3 permlt progrma for polnt source
dlscharg-s to groundwater where such dlscharges are not already controlled under
exlstlng regulatlons"
Requests: Actlon
Groundwaer progm revlew for 1nfozmatlon only“
requests for one element of the groundwater progral
Groundwaer Quallty (full text attached).
Speclflc approval 15
Pollcy o Frotectl n of
am
am 0393.0
cm snow nwzman ACTIVITIES
Element
Descrlpton of am Posltlon and Status
Groundwa ar Standards
States 5 ould malntaln groundwater at
exlstlng quallty or at a quallty necessary
to malnt-ln uSE, provlded that standards
are appled where groundwater 15 yum,
drawn to use“ The federal government
should d-Velop ussibased crlterla 5
states c.n set reasonable standards"
Th1: pol Cy was approved by the Board
of Dlre ors 1n June 1935.
1
Groundw. er Monltorlng
Th1: posltlon addresses when, where and
how to onltor groundwater m7 1nsure
that delred groundwater quallty 15 not
impairs. The posltlon calls for tech?
nlcally sound methods for monltorlng
and reg lrements for technlcal
compete as of those perfomlng the
monltor ng. Th1: pollcy was approved
by the -oard of Dlrectors 1n June 1935.
Alterna-lve Supplies of
Drlnkln- Water
Th1: po lay descrlbes the process a
governmntal unlt should use to deter?
mine whn alternatlve drlnklng water
supplle- should be provlded. Th1: 15
an elabratlon of current Board
approve Superfund pollcy.
5°15 Sores Aqulfer
Th1: po lay exports restrlctlons on
5cm“: as over sole source aqulfers
to prevnt groundwater contmnatlon
Since t e aqulfer 15 the sole source
of drln mg water. The current pollcy
15 an eaboratlon of Board approved
Use Claslflcatlon
Our cur ent pollcy states that groundwater should be malntalned at a quallty
necess. y to support current and future
uses. a posltlon was approved by the
Board .5 Dlrectors 1n 1932. Raievaluai
tlon a - approprlate modlflcatlon c
the po lay 15 underway.
Produc- Handllng
Th1: p-llcy should address product
handll g and dlstrlbutlon procedures to
preven- contamlnatlon of groundwater.
Plans or pollcy development are
underw.y.
cm 03.391
EXHIBI J72
PRoPosD cm PosITIoN
worm mm 017 snovmwzaran QUALITY
1ntrodctlon
Ground star 15 an 1mportant natural resource that must be protsctsd.
cm
advoca es protsctlon of groundwater quallty, through managamant of tha resourca
y, «141 ting quallty or at a quallty nacassary m malntaln daslgnatad uses.
Ground ater quallty should ha datamlnad where water 15 wlthdrawn for usa.
Th1: d-cument provldes concapts for stats groundwltar quallty protaatlon
?cogrs s. Protactlon programs ars just ona aspact of ccmprahanslva groundwatar
gjnaga ant progrmas. Tha concapts addrassad 1n thls papar apply to a Wide
cross*ectlon of prlvate and publlc actlvltles (1ndustrlal, domestlc, munlclpal,
agrlc tural. etc.) that may affect groundwatar.
tor 1 ustrlal actlvltles, these recommendatlons cover manufacturlng and
ulcll ary facllltles other than waste dlsposal operatlons whlch have tha
poten 151 m contamlnate groundwatar. Waste dlsposal operatlons are already
coward by exlstlng state and federal statutes, regulatlons and programs.
Deals ons about managlng groundwatar resources have hlstorlcally and
approrlately been the responslblllty of state and local governments. In Vlew
of th. locallzed nature of groundwatar use and the land use conslderatlons tled
so clsely to groundwater management, states contlnue m be best sulted to
develmp and 1mplement groundwater management program. Some states have
deslged or are 1n the process of deslgnlng programs tallored to meet thelr
spam 1:: needs and conslderatlons. CMA encourages all states to develop such
progr m.
In de eloplng groundwater quallty protectlon programs, cm belleves that
state should conslder 1nst1tut1ng performance requlrements for each faclllty
that 111 minimise the release of pollutants (groundwater protectlon practlces
Also. CMA reallzes that stats: may choose to 1nst1tute one or more of the
6011- mg practlces as part of the groundwater management progrAt 37 a
grou water wlthdrawal program to protect groundwater quallty; by land use
plan my 1n areas where the potentlal for adverse Impacts from groundwatar
cont.1natlon from future actlvltles are Significant; and (:7 a permlt program
for olnt source dlscharges to groundwater where such dlschargus are not already
contolled under exlstlng regulatlons.
Srou dwatsr Protectlon Practlces
The nstltutlon of requlrements for approprlata faclllty deslgn and
deralng practlces (GPP'57 15 an acceptable and approprlate means of protectlng
grou duster quallty and of mmmsmg the potentlal for groundwater dlschargee
am 33392
from 111 source'. Such practlces should be developed by the affected faclllty,
be 1 lamented on a facllltyispeclflc basls and 1nclude the concept of
hyd -geolog1c Vulnerablllty. Survelllance programs should be 1nst1tuted, where
nec-ssary, to demonstrate the effectlveness of the speclflc protectlon practlce.
In, addltlon. a cw should 1nclude educatlonal and training programs for those
resonslble for 1mplementatlon.
app 5 should address current and planned actlvltles and should be
doc ented. They should also 1nclude any necessary plots, plans, drawlngs or
map. In addltlon, the app plan should be modlfled whenever changes at a
fat: llty materlally 1ncrease the potentlal for Significant releases of
polutants or where actual releases 1nd1cate the plan 15 1nadequate.
whee states opt to 1nclude GPP...5 as part of thelr groundwater quallty
pr- ectlon program, such practlces could 1nclude an 1nspectlon provlslon and
tr gger mechanlsm for more detalled plan revlew when dlscharges occur.
Th- federal government should 55515: states 1n developlng cw requlrements
by provldlng guldance and technlcal asslstance and by creatlng the opportunlty
fo 1nfomatlon exchange. Th1: would 35515: states 1n detemlnlng the most
at ectlve approaches conslstent Hlth thelr speclflc needs.
A. an: regulatory requlrements, groundwater protectlon practlces are 5:111
a approprlate and necessary procedure for those whose land surface actlvltles
cnuld affect groundwater quallty.
- her state Conslderatlons
mproper wlthdrawal of quantltles of water can affect groundwater quallty
.y causlng saltwater 1ntruslon, undeslrable changes 1n groundwater flow
. .enda
me- g of the cma board of dlrectors
Monday . . Tuesday, January 27729, 1995
Great Heron
Ocean Reef Club, : Largo, Florlda
Monday, January 27,1-:7
TAB
1
Call to Order and Approval of Mlnute .
October 21, 1995 Meetlng Chalman Se .
Report of the Chemlcal Industry Trade Advlsor ..
Dexter F. Baker. Alr Products and Chemlcals. Inc.
Annual Report of the Internatlonal Trade Commlttee
Chalman: Allan J. Spllner, Rohm, and Haas Company
lD:lSrlD:45
Report of the New Jersey Chemlcal Industry Councll
J. B. Reld, Chalman, CIC/NJ (Amerlcan Cyanamld
Companyy; and Hal Bozarth. Executlve Dlrector.
CIC/NJ
10:4571190
Annual Report of the Tax Pollcy Commlttee
Chalman: Wllllam M. Bellamy, Jr.,
vmon Carblde Cozporatlon
119071195
Tax Refom Leglslatlon Status Report and Outlook...
St. Clalr J. Tweed1E. Amerlcan Cyanamld Company
(Chalrman. GRC Tax Leglslatlon Task Group)
3
11:25711:45
Report of the Presldent Robert A. Roland
7 Program and Issue nghllghts
4
11:4571150
New Busmess
a
11:50
1
Annual Report of the Health and Safety Commlttee
de Nemours & Company
2
Adjourn
cm 039559
Tuesdav. January 29, 1995
Call to Order Chalman Sella
Report of the Executlve Commlttee
Chalman Clark
Report of Nomlnatlng Commlttee Chalman
Sella
Assoclatlon Actlvltles
a. Treasurer's Report Gary c. Herman
b. Internal Admlnlstratlve Changes
Gary c. aeman
Proposed Pollcy on Chemlcal Tarlff Cuttlng
1n Multllateral Trade Negotlatlons 1mm:
Conslderatlon of Executlve Commlttee
Recommendatlons Allan J. Spllner, Rohm
and Haas Company (Chalman, Internatlonal
Trade Commlttee7
Proposed Pollcy on the Reauthorizatlon of
the Hazardous Materlals Transportatlon
Act: Conslderatlon of Executlve Commlttee
Recommendatlons Robert A. Chrlstman.
Mobay Chemlcal Corporatlon (Chalrman,
Distrlbutlon Commlttee7
Annual Report of the Distrlbutlon Commlttee
Chalman: Robert A. Chrlstman
Proposed Program to Increase Coordlnatlon of
Industry Polltlcal Actlvlty: Conslderatlon
of Executlve Commlttee Recommendatlons
Kenneth E. Davls, Rohm and Haas Company
(Chalrman. Government Relatlons Commltteey;
and Ken v. Cole. AlllerkSlgnal Inc.
(Chalrman. GRC Campalgn Task Groupy
Annual Report of the Cotmuunlcatlons Commlttee
Chalman: Mlchael E. Thompson, Amoco chem
c315 Company
10:2071097
Annual Report of the Patent and Trademark
Commlttee Chalman: Thomas 1. D'Brlen.
vmon Carblde Cozporatlon
Toxlc Alr Emlsslons
a. Overvlew of Issue and Actlvltles of Ad
Hoc Executlve ComlttEE*EMC Work Group
Harold A. Sorgentl, Board Vice Chalman
10:27...1n:35
h. Status Report and Outlook on Federal and
State Alr Toxlcs Leglslatlon and Regulai
tlon thp c. Holladav, Shell Chemlcal
Company (Chalrman. CR: Clean Alr Act Task
Groupy
lD:35711:DS
a. Proposed Alr Toxlcs Control Pollcy and 1m,
plementatlon Recommendatlons and Optlons
Harold A. Sorgentl; Frank c. Berryman,
Chevron Chemlcal Company (Chalrman, Eni
Vlronmental Management aomltteey; and
Rlchard A. Symuleskl, Amoco Corporatlon
(Envlronmental Management Commltteey
11:0571195
d. Proposed Alr Toxlcs Leglslatlve Prlnclples
Vlncent J. Marchesanl. 1:1 Amerlcas Inc.
(Sponsor. EMC Alr Issuesy; Robert F. Kelley,
vmon Carblde Cozporatlon (Chalman, EMC Alr
Leglslatlve Issues Task Groupv; and thp c.
Holladay
11:2571135
e. Flnal Dlscusslon and Actlon on Alr Toxlcs
Emlsslons Control Pollcy and Leglslatlve
Prlnclples ...7 Harold A. Sorgentl
11:3571290
Superfund Reauthorizatlon
a. Overvlew and Assoclatlon Actlvltles... Willlam
M. Stover
b. Leglslatlve Status Wells Denyes, Eastman
Kodak Company (Chalrman, GRC Superfund Task
Groupy
c. Dlscusslon of Fundlng Pollcy and Conslderatlon
of Executlve Commlttee Recommendatlons George
129071295
New Busmess
12:15
Adjournment
a
2307
mum's: of the threeﬁmndred slxth meetlng of the Board of Dlrectors of the
Chemlcal Manufacturers Assoclatlon. Inc.: held 1n the Great Heron Hall, Ocean Reef
Club, Key Largo, Florlda, on Monday and Tuesday, January 27 and 2a, 1935.
There were present:
Dlrectors
Harold A. Sorgentl, Vice Chalman
Robert A. Roland. Presldent
Dexter F. Baker
Max 5. Bass
Alan Belzer (17
Arthur E. Blggs
Robert D. Cadleux
Carlyle G. Caldwell
Harry Corless
Robert w. Davls
Kelth a. Edmondson
Robert B. Fell
F. Jack Fltzgerald
Robert a. Forney
u. George Harrls
John w. Johnstone. Jr.
Robert D. Kennedy
Hans a. Kopper
Sldney a. Leahy
Carl w. Lorentzen
3. Eugene McBrayer
Kelth R. McRannon
Robert L. Mltchell 117
Seymour 5. Preston. III
Thomas E. Rellly, Jr.
M. Whltson Sadler
James F. Schorr
Charles E. Stewart
5. Jay Stewart
Willlam Wlshnlck
Secretary:
Treasurer:
General Counsel:
Charles w. Van Vlack
Gary c. aeman
Davld F. 2911
By Invltatlon:
Willlam M. Bellamy, Jr. 7 vmon Carblde Corporatlon
Frank w. Berryman 7 Chevron Chemlcal Company
Hal Bozarth 7 Chemlcal Industry Councll of New Jersey
Robert A. Chrlstman 7 Mobay Corporatlon 127
Geraldlne v. Cox 7 cm
Kenneth E. Davls 7 Rohm and Haas Company
Wells Denyea 7 Eastman Kodak Company
Edward D. Grlfflth 7 ARCD Chemlcal Company
Philip c. Holladay 7 Shell 011 Company
Edwln c. Holmer 7 Exxon Chemlcal Company
Jon c. Holtzman 7 CMA
E. Hamllton Hurst 7 Nalco Chemlcal Company
John F. Hussey 7 Monsanto Company 127
Robert F. Kelley 7 vmon Carblde Cozporatlon 127
Conrad Kent 150mm 7 Stauffer Chemlcal Company
Vlncent J. Marchesanl 7 1:1 Amerlcas Inc.
Thomas 1. D'Brlen 7 Unlon Carblde Corporatlon 127
Mlchael A. Plerle Monsanto Company
J. B. Reld 7 Amerlcan Cyanamld Company 117
Allan J. Spllner 7 Rohm and Haas Company 127
cm 039551
2309
Willlam M. Stover 7 CMA
Rlchard A. Symuleskl 7 Amoco Chemlcals Company
St. Clalr J. Tweedle 7 Amerlcan Cyanamld Company 117
Jullana a. Van Egmond 7 Amerlcan Cyanamld Company
James P. Watklns 7 Amerlcan Cyanamld Company
Benjamln Woodhouse 7 Dow Chemlcal U.S.A.
t
Flrst day only
Second day only
k
t
1
mum's: 0F THE OCTOBER 21, 1935, MEETING
The meetlng was called to order at 9:00 a.m. on Monday, January 27, by
Vice Chalrman Sorgentl. The mlnutes of the October 21, 1935, Board meetlng were
approved as dlstrlbuted.
TRADE ADVISDR
Mr. Baker presented the annual report of the Offlce of the Chemlcal
Industry Trade Advlsor (scum. A copy of Mr. Baker's report 15 attached as
Exhibit A.
I
I
INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMITTEE
Mr. Spllner presented the annual report of the Internatlonal Trade
Commlttee. A copy of Mr. Spllner's remarks Is attached as Exhibit B. Followlng
the presentatlon, there was a brlef dlscusslon of the shlftlng nature of the
Industry's exports from commodltles to speclalty products. Messrs. Baker and
Spllner agreed to make avaliable addltlonal 1nfomatlon detalllng these develop*
ments and thls impact.
HEALTH AND SAFETY commm
Dr. Karrh presented the annual report of the Health and Safety Commlttee. A copy of Dr. Karrh's remarks 1: attached as Exhibit a. At the concluslon
of the presentatlon, there was addltlonal dlscusslon of the CAER program and the
extent to whlch 1: had been Implemented by all of CMA'S member companles. 1: was
agreed that a followup latter would be sent to companles who have not reported.
In addltlon, 1: was also agreed that a status report on CAER luvplementatlon by all
member companles should be sent to Executlve Contacts.
2]
:I
I
1
mm respect to product liability reform, there was dlscusslon of the
Danforth proposal as wall as related actlvltles under way at the state level.
cm 039552
2309
Mr. Roland expressed his appreclatlon to Dr, Karrh and the members of
she commlttee for the outstandlng job whlch had been done to consolldate a range
of extremely Important actlvltles and to structure CMA'S advocacy 1n these areas
1n 3 Very posltlve manner.
NEW JERSEY CHEMICAL muusmy cowcm
Mr. Roland 1ntroduced thls report by revlewlng the presentatlon given at
the September Board meetlng by Mr. w. T. Wood, Jr., on behalf of a speclal ad hoc
group. Th1: group had conducted a study of the status and programs of the 19
state chemlcal organlzatlons. Mr. Roland reported that as a result of comments
made by several of the dlrectors for more speclflc requests for actlon regardlng
1nd1v1dual cIcs, Mr. Wood sollclted requests for support from the Varlous state
organlzatlons at thelr annual meetlng 1n October. The New Jersey cxc was the
flrst to respond to thls opportunlty.
Mr. Reld, Chalman of the NJ cm, presented an overvlew of the Councll
and 1:5 hlstory, actlvltles and programs. He hlghllghted the evolutlon of the
Councll durlng the past an years from an organlzatlon whose prlmary purpose was
educatlonal to one Hlth a respected advocacy focus.
Mr. Bozarth, Executlve Dlrector of the NJ cm, reported on key leglslai
tlve and regulatory lssues whlch have had a substantlal 1mpact on the 1ndustry,
not only 1n New Jersey, but around the country as well. He provlded detalls of
the CIC's programs to address these lssues and to support CMA. priorities such as
CARR.
Mr. Reld requested addltlonal support In Elva areas, identified 1n
Exhibit D, whlch would markedly 1ncrease the CIC...5 effectlveness. Those recomi
mendatlons were unanlmously adopted. In the dlscusslon followlng the report, the
Board expressed thelr strong support for the NJ cm and the program 1: presented.
TAX PoLICy COMMITTEE
Mr. Bellamy presented the annual report of the Tax Pollcy Commlttee. A
copy of Mr. Bellamy...s report 15 attached as Exhibit E. He hlghllghted the suc*
cessful role of the Commlttee 1n representlng the partlcular concerns of the
chemlcal 1ndustry whlch are not belng adequately represented by other busmess
organlzatlons. He also descrlbed the Commlttee's efforts. to data, mm respect
to the pendlng tax recom leglslatlon.
TAX REFORM LEGISLATION
Mr. Tweedle presented a report mxmm: F7 on the status and outlook for
tax recom leglslatlon 1n thls Congress. There was conslderable dlscusslon of the
unpact of tax recom on the 1ndustry and the approprlate role and level of effort
for the Assoclatlon mm respect to thls issue. CMA'S posture, pursuant to
Executlve Commlttee and Board dlscusslon 1n the fall. has been to focus on those
Issues of crltlcal Importance to the Industry, partlcularly those whlch are not
bemg adequately advocated by other busmess groups.
The CMA plan was premlsed
on an exceptlonally high degree of member company partlclpatlon and leadershlp.
cm 039553
2310
Further dlscusslon of thls lssue was deferred to the Executlve Commlttee meetlng
that afternoon.
NEW BUSINESS
Mr. Davls spoke to the necesslty of taklng a more dellberate approach to
coalltlonlng and urged the Executlve Commlttee to conslder a more efflclent means
of accesslng the resources and coordlnatlng the advocacy of the other chemlcal and
related Industry assoclatlons. Mr. Clark 1nd1cated that thls was on the Executlve
Commlttee's agenda.
Mr. Sorgentl recognlzed the presence of former Board Chalrman Holmer.
The lssue of a letter sent by Mr. Roland regardlng the observance of
Martln Luther King Day was dlscussed.
The Board adjourned at 11:45 a.m. untll Tuesday, January 29.
Tuesday, January 29, 1995
The meetlng was called to order by Chalman Sella at 3:00 a.m.
mmsnmm's upon
Mr. Roland's report Is attached as Exhibit G.
dents hlghllghted the followlng Issues:
Departmental Vice Pre51*
Fomatlon of three new speclal programs and contlnued
cooperatlon between cm, AAR and um.
Developments relatlng m the 1n5urance issue, 1ncludi
mg the fomatlon of the Speclal Commlttee on Insuri
ance and dlscusslon of posslble commerclal 1nsurance
Vehlcles under way outslde of cm. Smaller companles
Interested 1n explorlng such solutlons m thelr
Insurance needs were urged to communlcate Hlth cm.
Also dlscussed were developments relatlng to EPA'S
Superfund enforcement pollcy and two recent Vistarles
for CMA 1nvolv1ng the Federal Marltlme Commlsslon and
Federal Energy Regulatory Commlsslon.
w.M. Stover
Developments relatlng m the 1mplementatlon of Gramm/
Rudman/Holllngs.
J.C. Holtzman
Increased medla attentlon to the air toxlcs issue.
cm 039554
2311
1
1
1
REPORT 0F THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Chalman Clark reported on the ltema dlscussed and the actlons taken by
Che Executlve Commlttee on the precedlng day. Those actlons taken were:
1
1
Approved 51x appolntments to £111 Vacancles on Varlous standlng
commlttees.
Dlscussed prellmlnary optlons relatlng m the 1995/97 budget
process.
Approved the formatlon of a Speclal Commlttee on Insurance and
dlscussed other posslble CMA Insurance related actlvltles.
1
Approved. for Board conslderatlan, the nomlnatlon of Howard M.
Nelson of Kalser Alumlnum & Chemlcal Cozporatlon to 5111 she
Vacancy on the Board created by the reslgnatlon of Donald 5mm.
1
I
Approved. for Board conslderatlan, a proposed pollcy on Chemlcal
Tarlff Cuttlng In Multllateral Trade Negotlatlons (wlth a mlnor
amendmenm.
1
1
1
1
1
1
Approved. for Board conslderatlon (mm the understandlng that she
posltlon on creatlng a hazardous materlals response fund be stated
more positiVElkU, a proposed pollcy on the Reauthorizatlon of the
Hazardous Materlals Transportatlon Act.
I
Dlscussed a proposed program to Increase Coordlnatlon of Industry
Polltlcal Actlvlty. Although there was general agreement that she
objectlves of the program deserved support, the proposal was tabled
untll the March meetlng, pendlng the resolutlon of certaln legal
concerns.
1
1
1
t
Approved. for Board conslderatlon 1mm certaln mlnor changesy, an
Alr Toxlcs Control Pollcy. Also agreed to, for Internal use In
luvplementlng the pollcy, a set of "Procedures for Conslderatlon by
Member Companles." In addltlon, dlscussed leglslatlve prlnclples.
Implementatlon Issues and plans.
Dlscussed Issues relatlng to Superfund reauthorizatlon and agreed
that no change In fomal Assoclatlon pollcy was necessary at thls
tune. Consensus was reached on the followlng Assoclatlon priory
tles for the Conference Commlttee dellberatlons:
1
1
1
Freeze the exlstlng feedstock taxes.
Strongly oppose the Downey Amendment language.
Support a broad based fundlng component.
Dlscussed lnterassoclatlon coordlnatlon.
1
1
1
t
1
cm 039555
r
2312
REPORT 0F THE NDMINATING COMMITTEE
Reportlng as Chalrman of the Nomlnatlng Commlttee, Mr. Sella presented a
nomlnatlon to £111 a Vacancy on the Board of Dlrectors caused by the reslgnatlon
of Donald F. Smith of the Kalser Alumlnum & Chemlcal Corporatlon.
0N MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1: was
voTED:
That Howard M. Nelson. Senlor Vice
Presldent, Kalser Alumlnum & Chemlcal
Cozporatlon. be elected as a Dlrector through
ASSOCIATION ACTIVITIES
Treasurer's Report Mr. aeman reported that the January Trey
surer's Report will be malled to the Board as soon as 1: 15 prepared. He also
reported projected results for the 1995/95 flscal year whlch 1ncluded revenues of
approxlmately 514,370,000, expenses of approxlmately $14,700,000 and use of
reserves of approxlmately $330,000, all Very close to the authorlzed budget
levels. mm respect to the budget for the 1935/97 flscal year, requests for 1995
chemlcal sales data have been mallet! and an early response was requested.
Admlnlstratlve Changes Mr. aeman presented for approval the
followlng three resolutlons, relatlng to the Assoclatlon's checklng and payroll
accounts and to changes 1n procedures for authorlzlng amendments to the Assam?
tlon's quallfled beneflt plans, for the reasons descrlbed 1n Exhlblt a.
on MOTION. duly made and seconded, the
followlng resolutlons were voTED:
RESOLVED: That Nsu Bank. Natlonal Assoclatlon. Washlngton, DC
(the Banky, as a deslgnated deposltory of thls corporatlon be
and 15 hefeby requested, authorlzed and dlrected to honor all
checks. drafts or other orders for the payment of money drawn
1n thls cozporatlon's name agalnst account number 0210744030
1nclud1ng those drawn to the 1nd1v1dual order of any person or
persons whose names appear thereon as Signer or signers
thereof wlthout further inquiry, when bearlng the slgnature
Raymond J. D'Bryan, Controller
Charles w. Van Vlack, Corporate Secretary
FURTHER RESOLVED: That Mr. Peter Agnew, Controller, 15
deleted as an authorlzed Signer agalnst account number
0210744030.
FURTHER RESOLVED: That all prevlous authorlzatlons for the
Signing and honorlng of checks, drafts or other orders for the
payment of money, drawn on the 531d Bank, by thls cozporatlon
agalnst account number 0210744030 are hereby contlnued 1n full
force and effect as ampllfled and modlfled hereby.
cm 039555
2313
FURTHER RESOLVED: That Mr. Charles w. Van Vlack, Corporate
Secretary, Is hereby requested, authorlzed and dlrected to
execute such documents as are requlred m unplement the above
changes and Within the 1ntent of the approved recommendatlon.
RESOLVED: That Nsu Bank. Natlonal Assoclatlon. Washlngton, DC
(the Banky, as a deslgnated deposltory of thls corporatlon be
and 15 hereby requested, authorlzed and dlrected to honor all
checks. drafts or other orders for the payment of money drawn
1n thls cozporatlon's name agalnst account number 0120743099
1nclud1ng those drawn to the 1nd1v1dual order of any person or
persons whose names appear thereon as Signer or signers thereof
wlthout further 1nqu1ry, when bearlng or puzportlng to bear the
facslmlle slgnature of ROBERT A. ROLAND, and 531d Bank shall be
entltled to honor and to charge thls cozporatlon for all such
checks. drafts or other orders for the payment of money,
regardless of by whom or by what means the actual or purported
facslmlle slgnature or reasonable reproductlon thereof may have
been afflxed thereto 1nclud1ng Macerated slgnature157, 15 such
slgnaturE157 resemble or are a reasonable reproductlon of the
facslmlle slgnature specmens certlfled or ﬁlled Hlth 531d Bank
by the Secretary or other offlcer of thls Corporatlon, and thls
cozporatlon does thereby undertake and agree to 1ndemnlfy and
save harmless 531d Bank. of and from any and all loss, damage
and expense whlch 1: may suffer or 1ncur by reason or as a
result of 1:5 rellance upon or actlon pursuant to the au*
thorlzatlon and dlrectlon hereln contalned; and
FURTHER RESOLVED: That all prevlous authorlzatlons for the
Signing and honorlng of checks, drafts or other orders for the
payment of money, drawn on the 531d Bank, by thls cozporatlon
agalnst account number 0120743099 are hereby contlnued 1n full
force and effect as ampllfled hereby.
FURTHER RESOLVED: That Mr. Charles w. Van Vlack, Corporate
Secretary, 15 hereby requested, authorlzed and dlrected to
execute such documents as are requlred m unplement the above
changes and Within the 1ntent of the approved recommendatlon.
RESOLVED: That the Presldent of the Assoclatlon 15 authorlzed
and dlrected, on advlce of penslon counsel, to amend the
Penslon Plan of Chemlcal Manufacturers Assoclatlon, Inc., and
the Chemlcal Manufacturers Assoclatlon, Inc. Thrlft/Deferred
Compensatlon Plan to the extent necessary to malntaln the
quallflcatlon of the plans under Sectlon 401157 of the Internal
Revenue Code.
cm 039557
2314
INTERNATIONAL TRADE MULTILATERAL TRADE NEGOTIATIONS
Mr. Spllner presented a proposed posltlon concernlng Unlted Stated
partlclpatlon 1n 3 new round of multllateral trade negotlatlons (mm. The
proposal reflected further commlttee dellberatlons as a result of the Executlve
Commlttee's comments at the September 1995 meetlng. As a result of Executlve
Commlttee's concern for the wordlng of the portlon of the proposal addresslng
forelgn pollcy concerns, a clarlfylng amendment was made.
on MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1: was
voTED: That the proposed posltlon statement,
as amended by the Executlve Commlttee and as
set forth 1n Exhlblt I. be approved.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS mmsponmuou ACT Rmumonrznmu
Mr. Chrlstman presented a proposed posltlon concernlng the
reauthorizatlon of the Hazardous Materlals Transportatlon Act.
on MOTION. duly made and seconded. 1: was
vomu; That the proposed posltlon statement,
as set forth In Exmm: J, be approved, Hlth
the understandlng that the portlon of the
posltlon statement addresslng the creatlon
of a hazardous materlals response fund be
restated In a more positive tone, whlle 5:111
maintaining the crlterla for support mentk
fled 1n the posltlon.
ursnmsumou COMMITTEE
Mr. Chrlstman presented the annual report of the Dlstrlbutlon Commlttee,
a summary of whlch Is attached as Exhlblt K.
INCREASED cooRDINATIoN 0F INDUSTRY POLITICAL ACTIVITY
Messrs. Davls and Cole presented a proposal for Increaslng coordlnatlon
of Industry polltlcal actlvlty. Chalrman Sella reported that thls proposal had
been tabled by the Executlve Commlttee untll the March meetlng, pendlng the
resolutlon of certaln'legal concerns. In the dlscusslon that followed, questlons
were ralsed about any practlcal problems other assoclatlons mlght have experlenced
Publlcatlon of a Notlce of Proposed Rulemaklng
1: expected 1n May 1935.
Testlng requlrements Will be based on a finding of potentlally
substantlal human exposure.
EPA estlmates that about 250,000 mechanlcs
are exposed to brake flulds where TGE concentratlons range from aniena by
Volume.
Proposed testlng for each ether 1ncludes:
17 a Bniday rat dermal
study mm satelllte neurotoxlclty testlng; 27 dermal developmental
toxlclty studles 1n rats and rabblts, 1nclud1ng a study of behavloral
teratology 1n the rat; 37 Tier One mutagenlclty testlng and posslbly
hlgher; 47 demal rat and mouse oncogenlclty studles (trlggered by
posltlve mutagemmtw; and, 57 a reproductlon study 1n rats 15 Signs of
reproductlve organ toxlclty are observed 1n the subchmmc study.
The Glycol Ether: Panel 15 conslderlng alternatlve testlng proposals
to the EPA program.
The Panel will 1n1tlate a dermal 11m: test study on
the TGES thls month.
An 1n Vltro skln absozptlon study on the compounds
15 also planned.
Hydroqulnone.
Results from a developmental toxlclty study of rats
exposed to hydroqulnone were submltted to EpA.
Testlng was conducted at
Eastman Kodak's Health and Envlronmental Laboratorles.
Ketones.
EPA'S Offlce of Toxlc Substances has lssued a flnal rule
requlrlng testlng of mesltyl made under TSCA Sectlon 4137.
The Agency 15
Page
49
CMA 039553
requlrlng a mutagenlclty battery and Bniday subchmmc study.
A posltlve
result 1n one of the mutagenlclty tests would trlgger hlgheritlered
mutagenlclty testlng and an oncogenlclty study.
All manufacturers,
1nclud1ng manufacturers of MD as a nonqsolated 1ntemedlate, and
processors are subject to the test rule.
EPA also conslders exposure to
MD 1n pestlelde formulatlon to be a TSCA concern.
Concurrent mm the publlcatlon of the flnal rule, EPA lssued a
proposed rule on testlng guldellnes for the research requlred 1n the test
rule.
Comments are due to EPA by February 3, 1935.
The Ketones Panel will meet thls month to revlew the flnal rule and
develop comments 1n response to the proposed test standards.
Lubrlcant Addltlves.
An organlzatlonal meetlng of companles
1nterested 1n formlng a Lubrlcant Addltlves Program was held at cm on
October 22, 1935.
Attendees 1ncluded members of an ad hoc group of
lubrlcant addltlves manufacturers who organlzed under CMA'S Dlstrlbutlon
Commlttee to address forthcomlng pollutlon control regulatlons by the
Internatlonal Marltlme Drganlzatlon.
The group...s 1nterests expanded to
dlscusslon of the polnt where sponsorshlp of envlronmental effects testlng
to support proper Shipping classlflcatlon of the addltlves.
CMA has
responded favorably to the request to establlsh a Speclal Program.
The
Lubrlcant Addltlves Panel will sponsor an aquatlc toxlclty testlng program
and 1ncozporate other actlvltles of the ad hoc group.
Meetlngs of the
Panel and Envlronmental Research Task Group are scheduled thls month.
Methylenedlanlllne.
The mm Panel sponsored a onsiday semlnar for
mm user representatlves.
The semlnar resulted 1n general support for
expandlng the Panel to serve as the central coordlnatlon organlzatlon for
1ndustry partlclpatlon 1n the upcomlng regulatory negotlatlons on mm.
Several key trade assoclatlons Hlth an Interest 1n mm declded m joln the
Panel;
Natlonal Electrlcal Manufacturers Assoclatlon mmm; suppllers of
Advanced Composlte Materlals (SACMA); and The Soclety of the Plastlcs
Industry 151m.
The mm Panel submltted comments 1n response to two Federal Reglster
notlces regardlng the establlshment of a Federal Advlsory Commlttee on
MDA.
The Panel submltted the nomlnatlons of Roger Danlels mom, Ron Lane
Fensterhelm (cum to the Commlttee.
The Panel also
endorsed the nomlnatlons submltted by NEMA and SACMA.
The Panel 1nformed OSHA that 15 all bf the 1ndustry nomlnees cannot
be accommodated. OSHA should not select the 1ndustry nomlnees to the
Advlsory Commlttee.
Rather. OSHA should 1dentlfy the number of seats to
be filled by mm producers and users and allow the 1ndustry to detemlne
how the seats will be allocated.
Dctylphenol.
CMA Signed a contract Hlth ABC Laboratorles for conduct
Page
50
CMA 039554
of a chronlc effects study of octylphenol 1n the ralnbow trout.
The study
15 belng conducted as the last part of a TSCA Sectlon 4 negotlated testlng
agreement Hlth EPA.
Phosgene.
The Phosgene Panel was given a prlvate tour of the
Department of Energy's new quulfled Gaseous Fuels Splll Test Faclllty.
The faclllty, located about 75 mlles from Las Vegas, has been establlshed
on a user *fee basls to study the dynamlcs of accldental releases of
hazardous liquids.
The Panel 15 explorlng the feasiblllty of sponsorlng
research on alr dlsperslon model Valldatlon and mltlgatlon devlces.
Phthalate Esters.
The Consumer Product Safety Commlsslon released t>e
flnal report of 1:5 Chronlc Hazard Advlsory Panel (army on
d1727ethylhexyl phthalate ”mam 1n chlldren's products.
The can report
concluded that whlle DEEP 15 an annual carclnogen, 1: 15 not genotoxlc
(does not damage mm and the most llkely mechanlsm of actlon 1nvolves a
threshold phenomenon.
In addltlon, the can concluded that exlstlng
exposure data are 1nadequate to permit an accurate estlmate of rlsk.
Flnally, the can suggested that addltlonal research 15 necessary to
accurately assess effects of DEEP on humans.
Followlng release of the report, the Commlsslon met on December 19,
1995 to conslder regulatory actlon of DEEP 1n chlldren's products.
The
Toy Manufacturers of Amerlca proposed a Voluntary standard on DEEP levels
1n paclflers.
The Commlsslon agreed to pursue the Voluntary standard and
meet agaln 1n March 1995 m revlew the progress of standard development.
The Phthalate Esters Panel will also partlclpate 1n the standard
development process.
The Phthalate Esters Panel has formed a new work group, as part of
the Panel's FDA Task Group.
The new Exposure Work Group will develop a
program that Hill supplement FDA food analysls actlvltles concernlng
phthalates.
The Soclety of the Plastlcs Industry Hill actlvely
partlclpate 1n thls effort.
The FDA 1: analyzlng mllk and beer samples to
detemlne representatlve DEEP levels.
The Exposure work Group has
proposed a program that will test three food types:
mlk, cheese and
meat.
51x locatlons 1n the Unlted States will be selected, and 51x
products 1n each food type will be collected from every locatlon.
DEEP
levels will be measured 1n each food sample.
FDA agreed to partlclpate by
identifying the approprlate food brands and locatlons for collectlon.
If
FDA concurs totally Hlth the proposal, testlng should begln 1n February
1935.
The Phthalate Esters Panel ﬁlled comments on the TSCA Sectlon 4
Proposed Test Rule on butyl benzyl phthalate 113pr whlch were prepared 1n
conjunctlon Hlth the CMA Envlronmental Management Commlttee.
Slnce BBP 15
also on EPA'S Prlorlty Pollutant Llst, the Agency 15 requlrlng under thls
rule all the testlng necessary to develop a Water Quallty Crlterla
Standard.
The Panel commented that the exlstlng data base on BBP "may
Page
51
CMA naeasa
present an unreasonable rlsk of 1njury." The Panel also feels that EPA
cannot use data needs for the Clean Water Act to justlfy testlng under
Sectlon 4 of TSCA.
Flnally, the Panel's comments polnt out that the EPA
requlrements for water Quallty Crlterla are excesslve, and that the
standard test battery should be reduced to reflect the state*ofithe*art 1n
envlronmental testlng.
The Panel's comments were also presented to EPA at
a publlc meetlng on the proposed rule on November 22.
The Panel and the
EMC Hill contlnue to work Hlth the Water Offlce to develop a more
approprlate testlng approach.
The Phthalate Esters Panel also provlded EPA Hlth comments on the
flnal report on "A Ranklng System for 307157 L15: of Prlorlty Pollutants."
dated August 1935.
The report will be the basls for potentlal removal of
chemlcals from EPA'S Water Prlorlty Pollutant Llst.
The 1ndustry has a
Vital 1nterest 1n the content and eventual appllcatlon of the report Since
any chemlcal can be llsted or dellsted as a prlorlty pollutant.
EPA plans to announce 1:5 flnal procedures 1n May 1935.
Polychlorlnated Blphenyls.
The Panel 15 contlnulng efforts towards
the development of a natlonal standar4 for addresslng PCB spllls.
Varlous
meetlngs were held mm representatlves from the Natlonal Electrlcal
Manufacturers Assoclatlon, the Edlson Electrlc 1nst1tute. the Natural
Resources Defense Councll and the Envlronmental Defense Fund.
The Panel has begun developlng 1:: Strategy for addresslng EPA'S
initiatives to brlng PCB regulatlons 1nto RCRA.
The Flfth Clrcult Court of Appeals granted the Panel's motlon to
1ntervene 1n the lawsult brought agalnst EPA'S new regulatlons on the use
of PCB: 1n transformers.
The petition was granted desplte EPA'S motlon
opposlng the 1nterventlon.
Rubber Addltlves.
The Panel has agreed to conduct a comparatlve
metabollsm study of mercaptobenzothlazole and mercaptobenzothlazole
dlsulflde.
The study will be conducted at Southern Research Instltute.
The Panel 1: 1n the process of preparlng comments 1n response to EPA'S
proposed TSCA Sectlon 4 test rule on MET.
Tltanlum Dloxlde.
The Panel last month met mm offlclals from the
Natlonal cancer Instltute to dlscuss the Instltute's proposed
epidemiologlc study of tltanlum dloxlde workers.
mar will address the
Panel's concerns 1n the report that 1: Hill submlt to the Board of
Sclentlflc Counselors for approval of the study.
The max Board Will meet
1n March 1936, and 15 the approval 15 granted, the study will begln by the
end of the year.
The In 1ndustry plans to fully cooperate Hlth mar durlng
the conduct of the study.
Vlnylldene Chlorlde.
The Panel attended an EPA semlnar on vuc.
Page
52
CMA 039555
r
Cesare Maltonl dlscussed the toxlcology studles perfomed on vac.
Panel will contlnue to track Dr.
Maltonl'VDC study.
The
Water Addltlves.
The Panel was formed 1n late 1995 to evaluate the
Natlonal Sanltatlon Foundatlon's regulatory program for threat and
indirect potable water addltlves.
The Panel 15 preparlng a posltlon paper
on organlc polyelectrolyte potable water addltlves.
The Panel will
partlclpate 1n the January NSF meetlng deslgned m 1nfom the publlc on
how the regulatlons Will be establlshed.
21m; Dlalkyl Dlthlophosphates.
The zDDP Panel recently declded to
sunset after four years of conductlng an actlve research and advocacy
program.
The zDDP program was organlzed 1n 1931.
Partlclpatlng companles
sponsored a threejohase research program deslgned to study the mutagenlc
potentlal and posslble reproductlve effects assoclated mm exposure to
thls class of 011 addltlves.
Seven producers and one user sponsored the
$400,000 program.
Research results from Panelisponsored research were shared mm EPA
and the Interagency Testlng Commlttee (ITcy.
These studles were decldlng
factors 1n the ITC declslon not to recommend ZDDPS for further health or
envlronmental effects testlng.
111.
DEPARTMENTAL woman moms
Offlce of the Presldent
Internatlonal Affalrs
Meetlngs mm Forelgn Trade Assoclatlons.
A contlnulng
dlscusslon mm the European Councll of Chemlcal Manufacturers
Federatlons (amvrcy and the Japan Chemlcal Industry Assoclatlon
warm has resulted 1n agreement to meet Hlth both JCIA and CEFIC
1n the Unlted States durlng the flrst 51x months of 1995.
These
meetlngs are reclprocal and Will have a broad agenda, focusslng on
dlfferences between emerglng v.5. and forelgn systems of labellng to
1dentlfy toxlc materlals and safe workplace and handllng procedures.
Government Relatlons Department
Grassroots Actlvltles
The Grassroots Program contlnues to support the Washlngton based
lobbylng efforts on Superfund reauthorlzatlbn.
Most of thls work 15 bemg
Page
51
CMA 039557 ,
dona through the network of constltutent contacts developed over the last
two years.
As Superfund leglslatlon moved through the House and Senate, the
Grassroots Program contlnued to request letters and telephone calls from
constltuents m leglslators.
The message dellvered to the leglslators
contlnued to reflect the latest leglslatlve developments.
The response to request for letters, telephone calls, and Visits was
outstandlng.
1: appears that most companles made every effort to contact
a maxlmum number of Congressmen.
Followup letters thanklng those Congressmen who supported CMA were
also requested.
Each Grassroot Manager was given the Votlng record on the
major amendments debate by the full House.
As needed, the Grassroots Program will lobby Congressmen and Senators
1nvolved 1n the Conference Commlttee on Superfund.
In January 3 letter from the cm Chalrman of the Board George Sella
of Amerlcan Cyanamld Will be sent to each CMA member company requestlng
1ncreased and new partlclpatlon 1n the Grassroots Program.
There Will be a meetlng of exlstlng and new Grassroots Managers 1n
February 1935.
Th1: meetlng 15 deslgned m 1ntroduce all Grassroots
Managers to the Grassroots Program.
Background 1nfomatlon on the new
Grassroots lssues of the Clean Alr Act and Groundwater Will also be
dlscussed.
Followlng the February meetlng, companles' Grassroots Managers Will
be asked to 1dentlfy constltuents llvlng 1n key congresslonal dlstrlcts or
states.
These contacts will act as the coordlnator of CMA Grassroots
actlvltles 1n thelr area.
The Grassroots Program also plans to develop Coalltlon efforts mm
other chemlcal assoclatlons, other 1ndustry assoclatlons, and state
chemlcal counclls wherever posslble to lobby on the Clean Alr Act and
Groundwater lssues.
Technlcal Department
Hazardous Waste Testlmony.
on January 31, 1935, 1n Albany New York,
Cox will present CMA'S testlmony on Hazardous Waste Management 1n the
chemlcal 1ndustry.
1995 Spllls Conference.
Plans are almost completed for the 1995
spllls conference. whlch Will be held May 579 1n St. Louls, MD.
Page
54
CMA 039559
Chemlcal Referral Center.
The Center began operatlons on schedule 1n
December.
Busmess 15 5:111 slow but growlng as more people learn that
the telephone llnes are now open.
Offlce of the General Counsel
Insurance.
The Offlce has hosted a serles of meetlngs Hlth 1n5urance
representatlves of several member companles whlch has culmlnated 1n a
proposal to the Executlve Commlttee that (:le establlsh a Speclal Commlttee
on InsuranCE,
The two prlmary purposes of the Speclal Commlttee would be
to recommend to the Executlve Commlttee CMA advocacy posltlons mm the
government on 1nsurance speclflc lssues and to host a blannual open forum
for member 1nsurance representatlves to share 1nfomatlon on the
avaliablllty of 1nsurance to the 1ndustry.
The Offlce has also represented the Assoclatlon at meetlngs of
Varlous Washlngton based organlzatlons on the related lssues of 1nsurance
avaliablllty and llablllty reform.
Government 7 Industry 7 Envlronmentallsts Meetlng on Alternatlves to
Litigation.
The Offlce represented the Assoclatlon at an October meetlng
at the Ausable Club 1n New York, of senlor lawyers and other offlclals of
EPA, the Department of Justlce and several envlronmental organlzatlons and
other 1nd1v1duals knowledgeable about alternatlves to litigation.
Th1:
flrst twoiday, exploratory meetlng, hosted 1n part by the Envlronmental
Law Instltute. pemltted the attendees to share 1nfomatlon on the hlstory
and dlsposltlon of thelr respectlve organlzatlons to pursue alternatlves
to litigation.
Speclflcally 1dent1£1ed as an arena worth the attentlon of the respectlve
organlzatlons was lltlgatlon alternatlves 1n Superfund generally, and
Superfund enforcement speclflcally.
A second meetlng 1: Scheduled for
January at Belmont House 1n Maryland where toplcs for dlscusslon Hill
1nclude cltlzen enforcement of the envlronmental laws and potentlals for
negotlated rulemaklng.
Communlcatlons
A speclal task group of the Communlcatlons Commlttee met to dlscuss
the lssue of Rlsk communlcatlon and the 1mpact of rlsk perceptlon on
publlc demands for government 1nterventlon.
The Communlty Informatlon Programs Task Group conducted an 1ntervlew
program mm the Natlonal Assoclatlon of County Agrlcultural Agents at 1::
annual meetlng.
Five 1ndustry representatlves from Elva member companles
taped 11 hours mm 22 newspapers and 39 radlo statlons Hlth an estlmated
audlence of more than one mllllon.
The task group placed Charles M.
Page
55
CMA 039559
Klttrell. executlve Vlce presldent, Phillips Petroleum, on the annual
meetlng program.
r
At the Natlonal Assoclatlon of Farm Broadcasters conventlon, 13
1ndustry representatlves from 11 companles were avaliable for 1ntervlews.
Flftyithree broadcasters taped programs for an audlence estlmated at 100
mllllon.
The CMA Issues Erleflng Book 15 bemg revlsed to reflect such new
priorities as toxlc alr, groundwater, CAER/NCRIC and m ellmlnate some
dormant lssues.
The book 15 dlstrlbuted to more than 1.300 cm members,
mm many companles dupllcatlng and dlstrlbutlng 1: 1n quantlty.
1
1
1
CMA
Page
55
CMA naeaan
EXHIBIT 3
admlnlstratlve recommendatlons
background
mm the promotlon of Mr. Raymond J. D'Bryan to the posltlon of
Controller at CMA. 1: 15 necessary that Mr. D'Bryan's name replace that
of Mr. Agnew as an authorlzed Signer on the Assoclatlon's commerclal
checklng account.
The addltlon of Mr. Van Vlack. the Corporate
Secretary, as a fourth authorlzed Signer should facllltate processlng
and revlewlng dlsbursements whlle maintaining good 1nternal control.
RECOMMENDATION
That the Assoclatlon's commerclal checklng account at Natlonal
Savlngs and Trust (No. 0210440307 may be drawn on by check Signed by
any two of the followlng:
Robert A. Roland. Presldent; Gary c.
Herrman. Vice presmennmeasurer; Charles w. Van Vlack, Corporate
Secretary; or Raymond J. D'Bryan, Controller.
The facslmlle signature
of Robert A. Roland may be used to counterslgn checks drawn by, Robert
A. Roland. Gary c. Herrman, Charles w. Van Vlack or Raymond J. D'Bryan
(not to exceed $10,000 per cheeky.
ACTION REQUESTED
Approval of Recommendatlon and Resolutlon A.
BACKGROUND
The current procedures requlrlng the manual slgnature of the
Presldent or Treasurer for dlsbursements from the Assoclatlon's 1mprest
payroll account are burdensome and time consumlng.
Adequate control
already exlsts m permlt use of a facslmlle slgnature for such
dlsbursements.
RECOMMENDATION
That the Assoclatlon's payroll checklng account at Natlonal
Savlngs and Trust (No. 0120430997 may be drawn on only by check Signed
by one of the followlng:
Robert A. Roland. Presldent; Gary c. Herman,
Vlce prendentwreasurer; or Robert A. Roland/facslmlle.
ACTION REQUESTED
Approval of recommendatlon and Resolutlon B.
BACKGROUND
Through recently passed leglslatlon, 1.e., the Tax Equlty and
Flscal Responslblllty Act of 1992 (TEFRA), the Deflclt Reductlon Act
umnw. and the Retlrement Equlty Act 11mm, congress has 1mposed
numerous addltlonal requlrements for contlnued tax quallflcatlon of
penslon and profltisharlng plans.
The ms has not yet lssued regui
latlons unplementlng all th new leglslatlon and regulatlons that have
been lssued have not yet been flnallzed,
congress also may enact new
CMA 039551
c
2
leglslatlon changlng the requlrements for malntenance of tax quallfled
status.
Because 1: 15 as yet unclear what requlrements must be met 1n
order m malntaln taxﬂauallfled status under the new tax laws, 1r:
may request addltlonal amendments to the Plans durlng the determlnatlon
letter process.
Addltlonal amendments may also be needed to comply
mm any future changes 1n the tax laws.
Accordlngly, an expedltlous
method of amendlng the 401m Plan and the Penslon Plan to malntaln tax
quallfled status 15 needed.
At 1:: October 19, 1995 meetlng, the cm Employee Beneflts
Commlttee dlrected staff and penslon counsel to prepare a resolutlon
for Board approval to expand the authorlty of the Presldent to make
such changes.
RECOMMENDATION
That the Presldent be granted authorlty, on advlce of penslon
counsel, to authorlzed amendments to CMA'S quallfled plans to the
1
extent necessary to malntaln thelr quallfled status.
Such amendments
would be subsequently, reported to the Employee Beneflts Commlttee and
Board for Revlew.
AC on REQUESTED
Appr val of Recommendatlon and Resolutlon c.
Attac ments
CMA
CMA 03 a2
EXHIBIT I
pnoposm MTN PosITIoN
EACKGRDU
The Admln stratlon has moved strongly to counter Congresslonal
anger abou unport competltlon and forelgn markets closed to v.5.
exports.
The Preslde t proposed on September 23 a long 115: of thlngs
he will do dmlnlstratlvely and requests he will make of the Congress
for leglslat on.
Among the pr posals Will be a request for
authorlzatlo of a new round of multllateral trade negotlatlons
(MTN'57 under the General Agreement on Tarlffs and Trade (GATT).
Important sec lons of the busmess conanunlty and the farmers have
been pressurln the Admlnlstratlon for such broad scale bargalnlng for
several years.
1: 15 essentlal they belleve, to resolve serlous
trade problems hey have on a worldwlde basls.
In antlclpatlon of
thls, the Presl nt's Trade Representatlve has strongly promoted a new
MTN (llke the Ke nedy Round of the 60's and Tokyo round of the 70:7
mm other count les.
1: now appears th t enough GATT members agree
and the Presldent needs to prove his commltment by obtalnlng
Congresslonal app oval to proceed.
Key mus 1n the hate and House
have an MTN author zatlon provlslon.
They Will be taken up early 1n
1935.
RECOMMENDATION
The CMA Internatlon 1 Trade Consnlttee seeks to emphaslze three
lssues 1n 3 new MTN.
ntellectual property rlghts 1nvestment pollcy
an .rle cuttlng.
mm a .. tlon already approved by the Board on
the flrst m. sues, approval of a tarlff cuttlng pollcy was
requested the B05 .- on September 10.
The proposal was table wlthout
prejudlce, to allow the IT .. revlse 1: after revlewlng comments by
Board members.
The resultlng, proposed pollcy and s . -ment of prlnclples 15
attached.
1: calls for a sound v.5.
negotlatlng pollcy, a better
GATT dlspute settlement procedure, llmlted tarlff cuttln .nd
resolutlon of 1nvestment and 1ntellectual property rlghts d1 ultles
1n other countrles.
A copy of the full, recosnended ITC pollcy 15 3 attached.
ACTION Rmvnmu 7 Approval of attached posltlon.
am
am 039553
CHEMICAL MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
STATEMENT 0F pnmcrpms
communes
UNITED sums: PARTICIPATION IN A
NEW ROUND 0F MULTILATERAL TRADE NEGOTIATIONS 1mm
vmmn THE GENERAL AGREEMENT 0N TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT7
In 1936, the Unlted States and other GATT slgnatorles are expected to
enter 1nto a new Round of MTN 1n an effort to further expand world
trade.
cm belleves the new Round should address a number of lssues whlch are
cruclal m the long range competltlve posltlon of the v.5. chemlcal
1ndustry.
The emphasls should not be on 51mply cuttlng tarlffs, but
rather on efforts to ellmlnate exlstlng trade barrlers.
These trade
barrlers 1nclude forelgn market access, certaln tarlffs, trade
dlstortlng forelgn 1nvestment practlces, 1neffect1ve protectlon of
1ntellectual property rlghts, and the lack of an effectlve
1nternatlonal discipline for settllng dlsputes related to
1nternatlonal tradlng rules.
The attached statement of prlnclples for v.5. partlclpatlon 1n the
new Round addresses each of these lssues.
cm 039554
Attachment
CHEMICAL MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION
STATEMENT 0F pnmcrpms
communes
UNITED sums: PARTICIPATION IN A NEW mum:
0F MULTILATERAL TRADE NEGOTIATIONS 1mm
vmmn THE GENERAL AGREEMENT 0N TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT7
v.5. NEGOTIATING POLICY
The new round of MTN must foster the development of sound tradlng and
1nvestment practlces.
v.5. partlclpatlon 1n the MTN should 1nclude
as prlorlty objectlves the ellmlnatlon of trade dlstortlng practlces
and the expanslon of v.5. export opportunltles.
The reductlon of
v.5. tarlff rates should not be among the prlmary v.5. negotlatlng
objectlves for a new MTN.’
The 1nternatlonal trade 1nterests of the Unlted States should be glven
conslderatlon at least equal to forelgn pollcy concerns 1n negotlatlng
agreements durlng the MTN.
Forelgn pollcy concerns" other than those
of a natlonal securlty nature, should not effect declslons on v.5.
trade pollcy.
Adequate and tlmely opportunltles should be provlded for v.5.
chemlcal 1ndustry 1nput and revlew durlng the process of establlshlng
negotlatlng objectlves as well as durlng the negotlatlons themselves.
Ample opportunlty should also be provlded for the prlvate sector to
comment. and for Congress to debate and amend any tentatlve agreements
made 1n the negotlatlng process, before the negotlated agreements are
submltted m the Congress for flnal...approval.
The MTN authorlty should not restrlct the Presldent from conductlng
separate trade negotlatlons mm other countrles durlng the MTN.
In
addltlon, the Admlnlstratlon should not unpalr the luvplementatlon and
tlmely and aggresslve resolutlon of actlons brought under v.5. trade
remedy laws durlng the MTN.
GATT DISPUTE SETTLEMENT pnocmmms
GATT dlspute settlement procedures must be 1mproved m 1nclude
blndlng, t1me*cert51n requlrements for the resolutlon of dlsagreements
on lssues covered by GATT rules.
Resolutlon of dlsputes already taken
to GATT should be the flrst step 1n thls process.
5:
cm 039555
mnmsu MARKET ACCESS
GATT Signatory countrles should be requlred to grant v.5. exporters
falr access to thelr markets wlthout unreasonable barrlers or
condltlons, 1n exchange for thelr retalnlng relatlvely free access to
TARIFF NEGOTIATIONS
1
Although the emphasls of a new Round should not be on tarlff cuttlng,
the reductlon or even ellmlnatlon of tarlffs on certaln chemlcal
products may be approprlate, whlle reductlons of tarlffs on certaln
other chemlcal products may impose an undue burden on v.5.
manufacturers.
Any reductlons whlch are proposed should, therefore,
be wellijustlfled.
In the 1nterest of reachlng a balanced and equltable trade and tarlff
agreement, the Unlted States should negotlate changes 1n chemlcal
tarlffs only on the basls of request 115:5, rather than unposlng
formula cuts across the board, or automatlcally ellmlnatlng tarlffs
below certaln levels.
Also. any v.5. plan to reduce or ellmlnate chemlcal tarlffs should
1nclude provlslons enabllng affected 1ndustr1es to obtaln exceptlons
for import sensltlve products.
In addltlon. reductlon or ellmlnatlon of chemlcal tarlffs should not
be offered 1n exchange for concesslons 1n nonichemlcal sectors.
These condltlons should be 1ncluded 1n any leglslatlon authorlzlng
v.5. partlclpatlon 1n the MTN, and speclflcally 1n leglslatlve
language provldlng tarlff negotlatlng authorlty for a new MTN Round.
mnmsu INVESTMENT PRACTICES
A GATT code on forelgn 1nvestment should be negotlated.
Such a code
should be based on natlonal treatment for forelgn 1nvestments and
should ensure the ellmlnatlon or substantlal reductlon of
tradeﬁilstortlng forelgn 1nvestment practlces, 1nclud1ng!
o
prohibitions or restrlctlons on forelgn 1nvestment
1n certaln economc sectors. such as chemlcals
1
cm 039555
0
screenlng of forelgn 1nvestment proposals by
government agencles and llmltatlons on the amounts
and percentages of equlty that can be owned by
forelgners
o
perfomance requlrements, 1nclud1ng mandated local
purchase of equlpment, supplies and servlces, and the
share of productlon whlch must be dedlcated to Exports
0
llmltatlons on royaltles and llcenslng
o
llmltatlons on repatrlatlon of earnlngs.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS
v.5. negotlators should seek blndlng cosnltments from forelgn
governments not to use 1nadequate 1ntellectual property laws to
dlstort 1nternatlonal trade.
As part of these commltments. agreements
should be negotlated not only to 1mprove the protectlon afforded
patents, trademarks and copyrlghts, but also to unprove the protectlon
afforded 1n practlce to proprletary or confldentlal 1nfomatlon and
trade secrets so that forelgn natlonals operatlng 1n other countrles
may exerclse and obtaln enforcement of thelr 1ntellectual property
rlghts 1n those countrles.
cm 039557
EXHIBIT J
cm PosITIoN on THE
reauthorlzatlon
0p
the
hazardous
materlals
TRANSPORTATION ACT
problem
The federal government has been loslng the strong central authorlty
to regulate the movement of hazardous materlals"
An 1ncreaslng
number of state and local rules now restrlct the free flow of these
commodltles.
Such restrlctlons are manlfested 1n many dlfferent
forms, 1nclud1ng:
permlts, routlng, prenotlflcatlon, equlpment
speclflcatlons, drlver llcenslng and hazard 1dent1£1catlon.
In exchange for glvlng up thelr rlght to impose local fees to Support Stats
and local response capabllltles to transportatlon emergencles mi
Volvlng hazardous materlals and other operatlon requlrements, state
and local governments are demandlng fundlng to 1mprove thelr response
to transportatlon 1nc1dents 1nvolv1ng hazardous materlals.
ij actlve
Strengthen the EMTA to give DDT the ability to qulckly revlew and rule
on local and state ordlnances that 1mpede the 1nterstate movement
of goods“
Improve the ability of communltles to plan for and
respond to hazardous materlals transportatlon emergencles,
such
luvprovements should not be funded Hlth a new ...transportatlon
Superfund", but rather should take 1nto account prlvate initiatives
such as name and CAER to respond to state and local needs.
Background
The Hazardous Materlals Transportatlon Act (HMTA7 was orlglnally
passed 1n 1974, and reauthorlzed 1n 157a and agaln 1n 1932.
In the
last round of hearlngs on the EMTA reauthorlsatlon, 1ndustry pressed
for natlonal unlfomlty of regulatlons.
Th1: was strongly opposed by
representatlves of state and local government unless 1ndustry agreed
to address thelr concerns about local emergency response
Capablllt1e5.As a result. Congress refused to take a substantlve
posltlon addresslng 1ndustry's concerns, or those of state/local
government"
Followlng the 1992 hearlngs a Coalltlon of 1ndustry and
state and local representatlves was formed to forge consensus
modlflcatlons m the EMTA that preserve the 1ndustry's 1nterest 1n the
free flow of commodltles between states and that address the needs of
state/local jurlsdlctlons to respond adequately to hazardous materlals
emergencles"
Unfortunately thls Coalltlon adopted the posltlon that a
speclal fund based on an 1ndustry tax should be 1ncluded 1n the HMTA
t
pay for training and equlpment for state/ local hazardous materlals
...a rgency response teams.
The fund was estlmated at $20 million
cm 039559
dollars but chat 15 unreallstlcally low 15 equlpment 15 1ncluded 1n
the fund objectlves,
we are concerned that the new taxes would also
be dlrected at the "deep pockets" rather than the whole hazardous
materlals transportatlon eoanunlty"
We are also concerned that soae
states or localltles would refuse to accept aoney froa a federal fund
and elect to 1n1tlate thelr own tax on 1ndustry.
Currently, the fund concept 15 supported by thls "Unlformlty
Coalltlon", the Natlonal Hazardous Materlals Technlcal Advlsory
Coaalttee (an advlsory coaalttee to won, the API, the Aaerlcan
Trucklng Assoclatlon , the Natlonal Assoclatlon of Towns and Town*
ships and the Natlonal Conference of State Leglslatures.
The posltlon
taken by shipper and carrler supporters 15 that a "55511 federal
fund" would be better than sany state and local fees.
t
Recommendatlons
:'I
t
support reauthorlzatlon of the HMTA 1n thls Congress.
The re*
authorlzatlon should strengthen the authorlty of DDT 1n preemptlng
local and state ordlnances that mpede the flow of hazardous
materlals through fees, bans, prenotlfleatlon, or unreasonable routlng
restrlctlons.
At the same tune we would support efforts to 1mprove
the efflclency and effectlveness of the federal government 1n
provldlng training for local agencles to respond to hazardous
materlals emergencles"
The federal program should recognlze the
contrlbutlon of Voluntary 1ndustry efforts.
Oppose the 1nst1tutlon of another fund to provlde training and
equlpment for emergency responders on the basls that the training
15 generally avaliable and could be readlly augmented by federal
programs 1n cooperatlon mm expanded 1ndustry efforts, 15 necessary.
unlpment needs are bemg net by 1ndustry through threat cooperatlon
1n the establlshment of local emergency response contlngency plans
and mutual 31:: programs such as CMA'S cazsz.
See Attachment I for speclflc recommendatlons.
See Attachment x1 through IV for addltlonal background.
Actlon Requlred
Approval of recommendatlon
am
am 039559
1
ATTACHMENT I
am PosITIoN 0N ISSUES
RELATIVE TO THE Rmumonrznmu 0F HMTA
There are generally twelve area“ balng consldered by tha Natlonal
Hazardous Matarlals Transportatlon Advlsory Councll (an advlsory
coaslttat to non. tha folca of Technology Assessment, and tha
Hazardous Materlals Coalltlon for amendlng tha Hazardous Matarlals
Transportatlon Act,
These twelve areas and tha recommended dlrectlon
cm should take on them are as follows:
Hazardous Materlals Regulatlons Must Be Unlfom
cm supports the recommendatlon that the regulatlons
governlng the transportatlon of hazardous materlals
should be natlonally unlfom.
leferlng regulatlons
at tha federal, state and local levels for such
transportatlon are counterproductlve m the safe
movement of hazardous materlals.
mule the exlstlng language of the Hazardous Materlals
Transportatlon Act clearly authorlzes the Secretary of
Transportatlon to preempt 1ncon515tent state and local
regulatlons. the process for obtalnlng such a rullng
has not worked to the satlsfactlon of government, mi
dustry or the publlc.
DDT '1ncon515tency rullngs...
should not be overturned by courts unless found to be
arbltrary and caprlclous.
DDT should conslder both the
'1ncon515tency" crlterla and the 'nonpreemptlon" crlterla
1n 3 smgle rullng.
These changes to the 1ncon515tency
process will reduce the tune and expense assoclated mm
determlnlng the lawfulness of state and local restrlctlons,
to the beneflt of DDT, states. localltles, 1ndustry and
ultlmately to the beneflt of safety.
cm agrees Hlth the recommendatlon that Congress should
clearly deflne the speclflc roles of federal, state and
local governments regardlng the development of hazardous
materlals transportatlon regulatlons.
In an effort to
achleve a natlonally unlfom regulatory scheme the federal
government, through DDT, should be solely responslble for
promulgatlng hazardous materlals transportatlon regulatlons
after taklng 1nto conslderatlon the 1nput of affected
partles, 1nclud1ng 1ndustry and other governmental agencles.
State and local regulatlons should only be promulgated 1n
areas DDT has not addressed and where states and localltles
cm 039570
have a unlque and legltlmate need to regulate.
cm further
belleves that state and local government should have the
prlmary responslblllty for enforclng these natlonal
hazardous materlals transportatlon regulatlons.
127 Data Base and Reglonal Flow patterns
cm agrees Hlth the recommendatlon that a data base sh uld
be establlshed to detemlne the reglonal flow patterns for
hazardous materlals.
He further agree that such 1nfomatlon
should be llmlted to what 15 necessary for detemlnlng the
approprlate level and placement of emergency response tralni
mg and equlpment.
1: 15 unportant that the 1nfomatlon re*
qulred for the development of thls data base 15 llmlted to
those hazard classes and materlals that have the greatest
potentlal for causlng problems.
Th1: Hill ellmlnatE, the
llkellhood that government will be saturated mm superi
fluous 1nformatlon. and will focus the natlon's emergency,
response capabllltles to those areas where they are
needed most.
To the extent posslble, the party most readlly able to
supply the 1nformatlon (whether shipper, carrler, DDT or
state/local autnonmesy should be the party requlred to
supply 1:.
Also. exlstlng sources of 1nformatlon and
sampllng technlques (e.g., DDT 1nc1dent reports, wayblll
sample) should be consldered before establlshlng new or
addltlonal Informatlon requlrements"
Flnally, commerclally sensltlve 1nformatlon should not
be requlred.
137 Natlonal Emergency Response Awareness Program
mule cm wholeheartedly agrees that the publlc must
be aware of thelr role when an accldent occurs 1nvolv1ng
hazardous materlals. we further belleve that there should
be a shared government/lndustry responslblllty to let the
publlc know what safeguards and mechanlsms currently exlst
to minimise the potentlal for problems assoclated mm the
transportatlon of hazardous materlals"
The actual 1nvolve*
men: of 1ndustry 1n thls area, whlch 15 extremely good,
should be conveyed as a part of thls publlc awareness
campalgn.
147 Guldellnes for Hazardous Materlals Incldent Plannlng,
Training and Equlpment
cm 039571
3
cm 1: commltted to the development of contlngency plans
for respondlng to eaergencles 1nvolv1ng hazardous aaterlals.
These plans should eaanate at the local level by bringing
together the resources of eaergeney response offlclals,
federal. state and local governments, and 1ndustry.
cm
and 1:5 aeabershlp have somany embarked on two major
programs that are deslgned to meet thls objectlve.
These
programs are the Communlty Awareness 5nd Emergency Response
Program (cum and the Natlonal Chemlcal Response and
Informatlon Center (NCRIC).
From an 1ndustry perspectlve, chemlcal manufacturers have
been Very progresslve 1n asslstlng emergency response
offlclals 1n the development of contlngency plans and 1n
maklng detalled support 1nfomatlon and equlpment readlly
avaliable.
We 1ntend m contlnue of efforts 1n thls area,
and we encourage other 1ndustr1es assoclated mm the
movement of hazardous materlals to embark on 51mm safety
initiatives.
Reglstratlon program
cm would not object 15 DOT, for good cause, declded to
exerclse 1:: current statutory authorlty m establlsh a
reglstratlon program for shlppers and carrlers of hazardous
materlals. as well as manufacturers of contalners for
hazardous aaterlals.
In detemlnlng the need for a reglsi
tratlon program, DDT should focus 1:: emphasls on product
flow identification and enforcement.
A5 explalned below,
a reglstratlon program should not be used for the collectlon
of funds for an Emergency Response Fund.
Establlsh A Fund
cm cannot endorse the establlshment of a federal emergency
response fund wlthout a clearer understandlng of the need
for a fund. the amounts 1nvolved, how the fund would be
admlnlstered, and how the effectlveness of the fund would
be measured.
cm does not belleve that the needs of state and local
emergency responders have been adequately assessed 1n terms
of training and equlpment"
Under issue 127. Data Base and
Reglonal Flow patterns, DDT may develop Informatlon peri
talnlng m the movement of hazardous materlals.
Th1:
1nformatlon on where hazardous aaterlals are movlng should
then be compared to where publlc and prlvate emergency
response capabllltles exlst.
Only then can an objectlve
assessment be made of the needs of the eaergeney response
cm 039572
coaaunlty.
s mply Bak mg aonty avaliable
govtrmant m thou: an adequate aseelsaent
the natlon 15 not an a pproprlate solutlon
a coordlnated natlonal eaergency plan for
aattrlall ace ldants ~
ma the federal
of the needs of
to developmg
hazardous
Further. over 300 states and localltles currently have
eaergency response capabllltles for hazardous aaterlals
spllls.
Exlstlng state and local eaergency response
prograas, coupled mm Voluntary 1ndustry asslstance,
should be consldered by DOT 1n assesslng the overall needs
of the natlon 1n teras of eaergency response asslstance.
Prainotlflcatlon
cm does not support the estmllshaent of shlpaentiby...h1paent prainotlflcatlon requlreaents for hazardous
aaterlals at the state or local level.
State and local
shlpaentibyishlpaent prainotlflcatlon requlreaents are
counterproductlve m the safe transportatlon of hazardous
aaterlals.
They can cause unnecessary delays and aasslve
paperwork subalsslons that are of questlonable value to
anyone.
cm would not object to prior notlflcatlon m a
central state authorlty of generlc chealcal flow, although
we belleve such notlflcatlon should not be necessary sore
often than once every twelve aonths.
Further. such of
thls 1nforaatlon would have m be supplled by transporters
Since they select the routes that are belng used based on
thelr overall shlpper/eonslgnee geographlc dlstrlbutlon.
187 Local Feralt,
Reglstratlon and Llcenslng Fee
A5 dlscussed 1n ltea 6, cm does not belleve the need for
an Eaergency Response .fund has been deaonstrated...
A5 mm
the federal eaergency response fund, cm belleves that local
peralt, reglstratlon and llcenslng fees should not be peraltted unless unlque local clrcuastances justlfy thelr need.
In the assessaent of the need for these local fees, 1ndustry
expertlse and resources should be accounted for.
Money for enforeeaent of hazardous aaterlals regulatlons
15 currently avaliable ma the federal governaent to those
states that have adopted the federal regulatlons.
cm
supports thls fundlng approach for enforeeaent.
(57 State and Local Sovernaents Adopt and Enforce Federal
Hazardous Materlals Regulatlons
cm 039573
5
CHA supports the adoptlon and anforeaaant of tha fadaral
hazardous materlals regulatlons by stats and local govern*
ments.
We recognlze that the federal government does not
have the necessary resources and personnel to adequately
pollce the hazardous materlals shlpplng and transportatlon
communltles.
Therefore. 1n order to enhance the safe
transportatlon of these products, cma belleves 1: 15
essentlal for state and local enforcement personnel to
ensure 1ndustry compllance mm the natlonal regulatory
scheme.
Good Samarltan Law
cm supports the recommendatlon that all states should enact
Good Samarltan leglslatlon to protect the liabilities of
those respondlng to emergencles 1nvolv1ng hazardous
materlals.
Enactment of such leglslatlon 15 essentlal to
enhance 1ndustry response to emergencles 1nvolv1ng
hazardous materlals.
1117 Technlcal Asslstance
In The Industry
The chemlcal 1ndustry 15 commltted m provldlng technlcal
asslstance to federal, state and local offlclals that are
responslble for protectlng the welfare of the publlc.
Programs such as CMA'S Communlty Awareness and Emergency
Response (cum and the Ratlonal Chemlcal Response and
Informatlon Center (NCRIC7 are prune examples of thls
commltment.
We belleve these programs should 11m: the
need for establlshlng dupllcatlve federal state and local
emergency response initiatives.
We welcome other sectors
of the hazardous materlals transportatlon communlty m
contrlbute thelr 1deas and efforts 1n bulldlng upon these
programs and communlcatlng thelr avallablllty.
nght To Know
cm agrees that 1: 15 1ndustry's responslblllty to provlde
product speclflc Informatlon to emergency response personnel
so they can handle emergencles 1nvolv1ng hazardous materlals
1n 3 tlmely and approprlate manner.
am currently provldes
much of thls 1nformatlon through 1:: cammm system, and
subsequent contact Hlth 1nd1v1dual shlppers. In addltlon,
the DOT Emergency Response Guldebook 15 a Valuable source
for initial responders.
Regardlng the dlstrlbutlon of general health and safety
Informatlon about chemlcals. 1: 15 CMA'S pollcy that
member companles Hill furnlsh m a central state
cm 039574
authorlty Macarlal Safety Data Sheets for each product
manufactured 1n the state.
In addltlon. our members are
commltted to furnlshlng Copies of MSDSS m 1nd1v1duals,
such as transporters, upon request.
Further. CMA'S new
Chemlcal Referral Center will enable callers to obtaln
chronlc health 1nfomatlon from the manufacturer of the
product 1n questlon.
mm respect to transportatlon, cm belleves that DDT
should mandate that Emergency Response Guldebooks be
kept at termlnals to 1nform employees about the acute
health hazards assoclated mm the chemlcals they are
handllng.
In the unllkely event that an employee 15
exposed to a chemlcal that 15 bemg transported, contact
Hlth the approprlate shipper or CMA Chemlcal Referral
Center will produce the necessary chronlc health hazard
1nformatlon.
am also would not object to the Guldebook
belng carrled 1n each truck cab and r511 englne.
Exposure
to hazardous materlals 1nitran51t 15 rare. however. 15 a
leak should occur acute health hazard 1nfomatlon 15
essentlal.
cm 039575
EXHIBIT K
ursmmmmu COMMITTEE
1994795
Oral
Report
Chrlstman.
THE ursmmmmu COMMITTEE
DECEMBER m
HAS
mum HAVE
THE
LED TO A
Chalrman
1995
HAD AN EXCEPTIDNALLY BUSY.
mmms
1935.
AS
WITH THE
EVENTS warca TOOK
PLACE
INCREASE
mm OPERATIONS.
REST CDMFDRTABLY WITH MAINTAINING THE
THE SAFETY
am Board
SIGNIFICANT
TERNAL AND EXTERNAL SCRUTINY 017
WE
REWARDING YEAR.
REST 017 THE CHEMICAL INDUSTRY.
the
Commlttee
January
YET ownwammmsm
to
5mm:
No
In BOTH
LONGER comm
ova.
EVEN mama
RECORD mu THE mmsponmuou 0F CHEMICALS
EXTREMELY soon,
LAST
HAS
BEEN
INDUSTRY MUST CONSTANTLY EXPEND A GREAT DEAL 0F
EFFORT TO ENSURE THAT PROBLEMS
ARE KEPT UNDER CONTROL.
WE ARE NOT so mum TD SUGGEST THAT ACCIDENTS
TATIDN WILL NOT scum.
mvnmmmm mmsgms
THE VERY NATURE OF
THE TRANSPORTATION
MANY POTENTIAL PROBLEMS
THE DIRECT CONTROL 0F own REPRESENTATIVES.
NITUDE 017 AN ACCIDENT.
m mmsponi
THAT ARE
NOT vmmn
TD MINIMIZE THE MAG?
THE ursmmmmu COMMITTEE AND STAFF HAVE
song To GREAT LENGTHS TD IMPLEMENT THE compmmms OF
THE NATIONAL
CHEMICAL RESPONSE AND mmmnmu CENTER.
mum.
AS
you mow,
IS
DESIGNED TO pnovnm
AND THE PUBLIC AS A WHOLE WITH
PROGRAM“
TITLED cammm;
TRAINING.
THERE ARE mun KEY
AN EXPANDED cammmc;
THE CHEMICAL
“spawns
mmmnmu ABOUT CHEMICALS TD
SATISFY THEIR RESPECTIVE NEEDS.
THE mum
EMERGENCY
ELEMENTS
A MUTUAL AID
REFERRAL CENTER;
TD
woman
AND FIRST RESPONDER
I AM PLEASED TD ANNOUNCE THAT AS WE mmmsm LAST
JANUARY ALL ELEMENTS 0F nus
woman BECAME OPERATIONAL m
1935.
cammmc HAS BEEN MDDERNIZED mm A NEW comumn SYSTEM THAT
WILL SPEED THE PROCESSING 0F EMERGENCY mmmmmu,
ABLE MEMBER commums AND
TO
RESPONSE
RECEIVE A HARD coPy pnmmm OF
THE ACTIVITY AT CHEMTREC commxms
RECEIVED
m
1935.
OF WHICH 6,999
PERSONNEL AT AN ACCIDENT scum
APPROPRIATE: RESPONSE
TO EXPAND mm
DATA.
31, 394
CALLS
RELATED TO EMERGENCIES.
THIS
LARGE AMOUNT 0F USAGE DEMONSTRATES
THAT cammm
THE MOST RESPECTED AND WELL REGARDED cm EFFORTS
AND EMERGENCY
AND WILL m7
REMAINS 0m: 017
BY THE
PUBLIC
RESPONSE ORGANIZATIONS.
cm 039575
2
CHEMNET,
59
3
cm
MEMBERS
COMMERCIAL
HAVE
THE
THE CHEMICAL
INDUSTRY'S
PARTICIPATING.
EMERGENCY
ENTIRE
THESE commums
RESPONSE
IDENTIFIED A TOTAL 017
MUTUAL AID SYSTEM.
121
commums
camsmm: WITH THE
vmmn CONTRACT TO cm
RESPONSE TEAMS
UNITED STATES THAT CAN
NOW HAS
covmzmc VIRTUALL‘I
RESPOND TO CHEMICAL mmsponmi
TIDN ACCIDENTS.
THE CHEMICAL REFERRAL CENTER,
5mm: TD NDNrEMERGENCY
mmmnmu 0N ovmz
mums.
movmms
25.nnn
WHICH
THE
ABOUT CHEMICALS.
CHEMICALS
wagmmc SUCCESS.
TD
CURRENTLY
HAS
19, 975
commas
mmmnmu ABOUT SPECIFIC
FIRST RESPONDER TRAINING.
HAS
THE'DISTRIEUTIDN COMMITTEE HAS
A LENDING LIBRARY OF TRAINING FILMS
m>
man 119 PARTICIPATING Cour
FINAL commmm OF THE NATIONAL CHEMICAL
mmmnmu CENTER,
TIDN:
BEEN SET
CALLERS ARE DIRECTED TO APPROPRIATE comm”
GENERAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
BY
HAS
pnmchs.
RESPONSE AND
BEEN AN own,
PUT TOGETHER
warca HAVE ALREADY BEEN VIEWED
MEMBERS OF THE EMERGENCY RESPONSE communmy.
A cm TRAINING FILM ENTITLED
mu
m Anny
"FIRST on THE scum"
COMPLETED AND IS RECEIVING VERY HIGH
REVIEWS
HAS BEEN
mom THE TECHNICAL
communmy.
warm
THESE AND OTHER SAFETY RELATED woman:
GREAT DEAL 017 mm MEMBER'S
HAS ALSO BEEN VERY ACTIVELY
PosTURE 0F
ATTENTION.
RECEIVED A
THE ursmmmmu COMMITTEE
INVOLVED IN ENHANCING THE
momma
THE CHEMICAL muvsnzy.
IN THE RAIL TRANSPORTATION AREA THREE MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS
occmmu.
WITH THE
THE
cm HAS SUCCESSFULLY
HAVE
NEGOTIATED AN ATTRACTIVE AGREEMENT
RAILROADS TD mmvnm A FAIR RETURN TO TANK CAR owN'ERs
RAILROADS
mg OF THESE VEHICLES.
TO ALL TANK CAR owNERs
IS 50m
5555
SUCCESSFUL m GETTING THE RAILROADS
THE me To
INVESTIGATE ANY
THE TOTAL AMOUNT 017
MILLION ANNUALLY.
mu
RETURN
cm WAS ALSO
TD AGREE on A MECHANISM mu
DEVIATIDNS BY THE RAILROADS
on THE
NATIONAL ALLOWANCE SYSTEM.
IN THE
ROLE
smom: MAJOR RAIL DEVELOPMENT,
IN osmmms A mvomm
commssmu 0N
RULING mom THE
RAILiTDiRAIL commrmw ACCESS
CHEMICAL PLANTS CAPTIVE
LISHED
cm PLAYED A pnmcrpm
TO A SINGLE
RAILROAD.
INTERSTATE comma
ISSUES.
WITH
THESE NEWLY
MANY
PU'Bi
RULES WILL wow VERY BENEFICIAL m yoxm ABILITY TO NEGOTIATE
commrnw
RAIL mmsponmnou
RATES.
cm 039577
EXHIBIT L
Cobhunlcatlons Commlttee Report
to CMA Board
January 29, 1995
A year ago when John Huasey of Monsanto gave the coaalttee's
report. there wasn't a person 1n thls rooa or In thls 1ndustry
who wasn't shocked by the tragedy that occurred 1n Indla 1n
December of 1934.
To an Industry already under publlc scrutlny, thls shock added
the eleaents of plant safety and operatlng coapetence to the
publlc's concerns about us.
To deteralne the extent of the
publlc's feellngs about chealcals, Caabrldge Reports recently
conducted a natlonal opinion survey.
The results of that survey were not encouraglng.
Wlthout golng 1nto all the detalls, the publlc's Vlew of the
chealcal Industry was falrly stralghtforward:
We are percelved
as the nuaber one envlronaental rlsk to soclety and the nuaber
Report by M. E. Thoapson, Aaoco Chealcals Coapany, m am Board
of Dlrectors, January 23, 1995
2
two safety rlsk, mm the nuclear power Industry ranked as number
one.
More than 70 percent of those questloned feel that a
Bhopalitype accldent Is llkely to happen In the v.5.
By
overwhelmlng majorltles, the publlc supports leglslatlon to
create rightitoiknow laws, mandatory emergency plannlng, and
buffer zones around chemlcal plants.
Perhaps one of the more dlsturblng findings was that 54 percent
of those polled aren't so sure that the beneflts they get from
chemlcals are worth the rlsk.
And about an percent of the publlc
wants more regulatlon of the chemlcal Industry even 15 such
regulatlon results 1n hlgher prices for consumer products.
Further. 1: Hill cone as no surprlse to you that we rank last
among baslc Industrles 1n terms of publlc favorablllty below
even the nuclear power and alcohol Industrles.
However. not everythlng the Cambrldge survey found out was
negatlve.
As an example, the publlc Is of mlxed emotlons as to the role
that percelved corporate greed plays In our envlronmental
perfomance.
About 51 percent felt that we're Just out to make a
buck regardless of the envlronmental consequences.
Yet 42
percent dlsagreed mm that statement.
cm 039579
3 The best news 15 that three quarters of the publlc feels that the
chemlcal 1ndustry 15 maklng at least soae effort to ensure that a
Bhopalitype accldent doesn't happen 1n the v.5.
mule that's
hardly great news, 1: does show that the publlc 15 at least
somewhat aware of our excellent safety record and the thlngs
we're dolng to 1mprove 1: even further.
We also learned that whlle the publlc 15 concerned about spllls
and leaks and accldents, they feel that 1: 15 the longitem
health effects that are most luvportant.
So as we take steps to
ensure agalnst accldents and crlses, we should not lose track of
the larger lssue namely, that the publlc 15 Very concerned
about chronlc health effects from exposure and use of chemlcals.
In unplementlng a strategy to rebulld our reputatlon, we should
reallze that there Is llttle opportunlty to do somethlng dramatlc
to showcase our efforts.
A5 H. Clark 531d 1n Washlngton
recently, "We haven't been caught dolng good....
There Is llttle
we can do of a posltlve nature that Will make page one or the
evenlng news.
And that's probably good.
mm our luck, we'd
have Dan Rather Signing off mm "and thls 15 the 10th stralght
day wlthout a major chemlcal mlshap."
Instead. we must rebulld our reputatlon the slow way mm a
fallsafe operatlng and safety performance, slncere attentlon m
the publlc's concerns, and a credlble communlcatlons effort.
other words. do good and THEN tell about 1:.
In
cm nzeaen
;or1ng our reputatlon, we need a goal.
on a publlc
Idenee scale of t to T0. 1t's unllkely that we'll achleve the
/r a level that we enjoyed 1n the 505 and 505, when we were
.‘egarded as bemg the source of alracle products.
reachable target would be a 4 or a 5 n that gray alddle ground
of publlc tolerance that Hill peralt us to operate our busmesses
1n 3 reasonable Banner.
The publlc always will be concerned
about our 1ndustry and our products.
that.
We'll have m llve mm
Our goal should be to answer the publlc's fears about us
so that thelr reasonable concern doesn...t translate 1nto extreme
actlons
In respondlng to Bhopal, the 1ndustry Hlfely steered clear of
progress that would be seen aerely as publlc relatlons gestures.
By creatlng the CARR and mum prograas, am has given the
Industry an actlvlst response that 1nvolves an operatlng
coaaltaent by llne aanageaent.
These prograas are comprehenslve
and dlrected fourisquare at the publlc's aajor concerns about the
Industry.
Mot colncldentally, they also provlde an excellent
communlcatlons opportunlty at the local and state level that we
aust use to our advantage.
The current state of the 1ndustry's aedla relatlons and
cosaunlcatlons efforts 1: one of those good news/bad news
Situations.
The good news 15 that the Intense aedla attentlon to
r
7 5 our busmess has enabled us to establlsh reasonably good
relatlonshlps Hlth hundreds of medla people.
to these people as never before.
We now have access
The bad news. of courSE, 15
that 1: took some traglc events to brlng thls about.
When I say Intense medla attentlon, I mean that llterally.
The
number of medla calls flelded by cm 1n 1995 reached 10,000.
That's an 11 percent percent Jump from 1934.
At Amoco we
recelved 25 percent more medla calls about our chemlcals busmess
1n 1994795 than 1n 1992793.
I'm sure that each of your companles
would report Similar results.
Desplte thls medla attentlon and desplte the negatlve news ltems
of 1935, a professlonal Vlew 15 that our treatment by the medla
could have been a lot worse.
mule each member of the
communlcatlons commlttee can recall a few horror storles from
1935, we agree that, on balance, the Industry recelved falr
treatment.
Th1: occurred as a natural result of 1ncreased
personal contact between the medla and the members of our
1ndustry.
In many 1nstances, our open and candld response durlng
these negatlve 1nc1dents helped establlsh credlblllty Hlth the
medla and showed our concern and our reasonableness.
A5 a result. we have created relatlonshlps mm some medla people
that Will be a major communlcatlons asset for us In the future.
cm 039592
Speaklng of "1:3, our future communlcatlons actlvltles Hill
beneflt from the success of the CMA Superfund edltorlal contact
program.
Th1: program, 1n whlch a number of you partlclpated,
was a major communlcatlons achlevement.
I: succeeded because cm
adopted a responslble and actlvlst posltlon on Superfund and took
that posltlon on the road mm great perslstence and
thoroughness.
The results In terms of edltorlals favorable to
CMA'S posltlon were nothlng short of 1ncred1ble.
The
edltorlal contact program also proved once agaln that the
1ndustry's greatest communlcatlons assets are the people 1n thls
room and your peers 1n other cm member companles.
To those 1n
the medla, you ARE the chemlcal 1ndustry.
So, to answer the questlon "are thlngs gettlng better Hlth the
medla?". I would have to answer a quallfled yes.
establlshed contacts and Credlblllty.
tfe have
Dpportunltles exlst for
substantlally unproved medla coverage of our 1ndustry 1n the
future.
Looklng to that future, the communlcatlons commlttee 15 convlnced
that CMA'S communlcatlons objectlves Will be best achleved by
concentratlng on solvlng current problems mm current resources.
mule we are concerned about the 1ndustry's longirange goals, we
feel that we can accompllsh many of those goals through properly
dlrected attentlon to today's problems.
cm 039593
7 7 s a result. He Will concentrate on the followlng areas In the
near future:
We Will focus our support on the CAER/NCRIC programs, especlally
now that many of the emergency plans have been prepared and are
ready to take to the publlc.
Our October open meetlng was a CARR .
communlcatlons semlnar that was Very well attended.
We Will
contlnue m recrult 1nd1v1dual companles to actlvely support CAER
ommunlcatlons and He Will work mm cm staff and the state
ch leal counclls 1n thelr CARR efforts.
we we set up a pilot program for communlcatlons commlttee
memb s to help Improve state chemlcal councll communlcatlons
progr 5.
Three tates are 1n our flrst batch that Hill begln
thls ye r.
If succ sful. thls approach could be expanded to
addltlon 1 states 1n the future.
We Hill a ntlnue to support CMA and the CICs 1n thelr leglslatlve
advocacy fforts.
As we've 5 en. a solld communlcatlons program
can help t 1ndustry reach 1:: leglslatlve goals.
We Will enc urage 1ncreased actlvlty by chemlcal company senlor
executlves communlcatlons actlvltles.
You can expe t us to
contlnue m ome to you mm medla contact opportunltles.
And He Will p omote a ratlonal publlc dlalogue on the subject of
rlsk perceptl n.
Worklng Hlth in Roland, we recently held 3
cm 039594
a
rlsk perceptlon semlnar for senlor communlcatlons executlves of a
dozen major Che leal companles.
The result was 1nterest1ng
exchange of me that should encourage a more 1nfomed publlc
dlscusslon of th s luvportant subject.
Before closmg, 'd llke to make two recommendatlons to you as
senlor executlves of your 1nd1v1dual companles.
The flrst recomme datlon relates to the communlcatlons revolutlon
we're seemg 1n 0 r Industry the people dolng much of the
communlcatlng are at experlenced, professlonal communlcators.
The mlddle ranks 1 our companles are bemg subjected to medla
attentlon as never beforE, partlcularly your plant managers.
As a result. we must Indemnlfy plant managers agalnst the rlsk of
worklng Hlth the medla at the local plant level, especlally as
the CARR program 15 unplemented 1n each communlty.
of all the
actlvltles assoclated mm the CARR program, the most dlfflcult
for your plant managers 15 talklng to the press.
Thelr fear. I
trunk, 15 that a slip of the tongue or a mlsquote Will have
negatlve repercusslons at the home offlce.
If we're serlous
about CARR and local communlcatlons, we must create a cllmate
where plant managers can be confldent of management support when
they speak out.
I reallze that dlfferent companles have dlfferent pollcles 1n
thls area.
And ther
are some rlsks 1nvolved:.
But we feel that
CMA 039595
7 9 the rlsks are greater 15 plant managers Do NOT work Hlth thelr
local medla, especlally where the CASH program 15 Involved.
A corollary to thls recommendatlon 15 that the 1ndustry's
conaunlcatlons people have to ensure that our plant people have
the training and support to handle thls sore actlve
communlcatlons role.
As an example, the comaunlcatlons portlon
of the CAER handbook was a Joint effort of the conaunlcatlons
conalttee and cm staff.
Our second reconaendatlon 15 based on the fact that the publlc
and soae of the medla nake llttle dlstlnctlon between one
chealcal company and another.
To the publlc, we are all part of
the saae 1ndustry, for better or worse.
The entlre 1ndustry
suffers when one of us Bakes page one mm an eaergency of soae
sort.
mm thls 1n Elnd, each chealcal company nus: ensure that 1::
eaergency conaunlcatlons procedures are as.up*toidate as 1::
eaergency operatlng procedures.
we should reneaber that there 15 no such thlng as a natlonal
chealcal eaergency, only a local 1nc1dent that develops 1nto a
natlonal story.
If our local conaunlcatlons are clear, conclse'
and proper when an 1nc1dent starts, there 15 a far better chance
that the resultlng natlonal news storles will reflect better on
the 1ndustry.
And, there's always a chance that 15 we do our
CMA 039595
10
communlcatlons Job rlght at the local level that the story will
not escalate m the state or natlonal level.
In concluslon. It's clear that we have a lot of work to do and
that we're golng to need all the patlence we can ouster.
A lot
of posltlve actlvlty 15 underway by CMA and the neaber companles
If we just give 1: tune to succeed.
leen our contlnued coaaltaent to the operatlng and
coaaunlcatlons programs that the Industry 15 Involved mm, the
communlcatlons commlttee 15 optimistic that over tune He Will
achleve our goal of regaining the publlc's confldence.
Th1: Is a
goal worth the best efforts of every 1nd1v1dual 1n our 1ndustry.
Thank you
CMA 039597
EXHIBIT M
REMARKS TD CMA BOARD 017 DIRECTORS
Thomas 1. D'Brlen
Chalrman. Patent and Trademark Commlttee
January 29, 1995
Patents have long been recognlzed as an effectlve
stlmulant to ingenuity and technology 1nnovatlon In the
Unlted States. After decades of benlgn neglect, patent and
other 1ndustrlal property rlghts have agaln been recognlzed
as a key asset 1n maintaining the effectlveness of Amerlcan
competltlon both at home and abroad. They have been
recelvlng 1ncreased attentlon 1n the government's deallng
mm our economy and the competltlveness of v.5. 1ndustry
mm forelgn Industry. Durlng the last ten years much
leglslatlon and other actlons. 1nclud1ng the establlshment
of a federal patent appeals court, have already been
unplemented. These actlons have strengthened the v.5.
patent system. But much remalns m be done. Many of these
actlons generally Impact on the chemlcal 1ndustry, and some
are speclflcally dlrected m 1:.
In revlewlng 1935, I would 1n1tlally llke m mentlon
three Significant developments 1n the patent Eleld. The
flrst 15 the precedent set 1n the recent KodakiPolarold
declslon 1n whlch the courts refused to stay an 1njunctlon
1n a patent case durlng the appeal perlod. Whether one
agrees mm the declslon 1n thls partlcular case or not,
thls declslon 15 a major example of the contlnulng shlft In
the judlclary to a proipatent attltude. The Commlttee, I
mlght add, took no actlon 1n respect to thls litigation, but
the declslon Is notable 1n what 1: represents.
Secondly, the v.5. government 1n5t1tuted an
1nvest1gatlon under Sectlon 301 of the 1994 Trade Act
agalnst South Korea. The government 15 looklng 1nto the
adequacy of the laws of South Korea governlng the protectlon
of 1ndustrlal property rlghts and the effect of such laws on
v.5. trade 1n that country. Through thls actlon, and
Varlous other recent actlons 1n the Internatlonal trade
area. the government 15 demonstratlng 1:: concern Hlth
unfalr practlces 1n the 1ndustrlal property Eleld by tradlng
partners.
The mum 15 the effort 1n1tlated 1n Varlous sectors
toward hamonlzatlon of 1nternatlonal patent procurement law
CMA 039599
and practlce. Th1: represents a concerted effort by
governments and busmess to moderanE, Simplify and reduce
the costs of patent procurement throughout the world.
These three developments are all seen as positive
actlons 1n the general trend towards more effectlve patent
systems 1n today's world.
In the leglslatlve area 1n 1935, there were no Important
15.5. laws enacted 1n the 1ndustrlal property Eleld, other
than on government budget matters.
1995 has been a year,
however. 1n whlch steady progress has been made 1n
leglslatlve reform. There are presently pendlng 9 patent
mus, 4 trademark mus, and 5 other 1ndustrlal
propertyirelated mus. Efforts contlnue to change the law
to restore a full patent term for chemlcals whose marketlng
1ntroductlon has been delayed because of regulatory testlng
and revlew by the government. Efforts contlnue m obtaln
patent protectlon 1n the Unlted States agalnst Imported
products that have been made 1n 3 forelgn country Hlth
processes patented 1n thls country. Changes 1n the law
governlng patent llcenses are bemg sought to give llcensors
falrer treatment when llcensees challenge the Valldlty of
llcensed patents. The Commlttee also developed CMA
posltlons on leglslatlon on the utlllzatlon of federal
laboratory technology and on unlfom patent procedures for
government 1nventlons. cm endorsed the latter leglslatlon
but has concern on the high royalty sharlng provlslon for
government employees In the technology utlllzatlon
leglslatlon. Amendments to the Tarlff Act have been
proposed to strengthen the rlghts of patent and trademark
owners 1n Sectlon 337 actlons for the excluslon of 1mported
products that infringe v.5. patents or otherwlse compete
unfalrly mm domestlc Industry.
Addltlonal comments are warranted on some 1nd1v1dual
1 terns.
As you may be aware from prior reports, the last
Congress enacted leglslatlon extendlng the tem of drug
patents whose effectlve tam has been eroded by premarketlng
regulatory testlng and revlew. Agrlcultural and TDSCA
chemlcals were deleted from that leglslatlon. 3111: have
b an Introduced Into the current Congress, and hearlngs have
been held, on slmllar patent term extenslons for TDSCA and
agrlcultural chemlcals. The CMA Commlttee had a prlnclpal
role 1n 1n1tlally draftlng thls leglslatlon when 1: was
1ntroduced several years ago. The Commlttee contlnues to
yllov and supporc thls leglslatlon, albelt today In a
Acondary coordlnatlng role to NACA because of the more
/"medlate concern of thls mm to agrlcultural chemlcal
/manufacturers.
The Commlttee Is supportlng the pendlng process patent
leglslatlon. Th1: 15 of partlcular significance to the
Unlted States chemlcal 1ndustry. Although not llmlted to
she chemlcal 1ndustry, the chemlcal 1ndustry would be a
threat beneflclary.
1: would give chemlcal producers
addltlonal protectlon agalnst forelgn competltors who use a
process abroad that 15 patented 1n the v.5. and who then
import 1nto the v.5. products made by that process. The
{allure of current v.5. law to have such protectlon 15
consldered 1nequ1table because most other developed
countrles have such a provlslon and v.5. producers are thus
placed 1n an unfalr competitive posltlon 1n 1nternatlonal
trade. Although some rellef 15 now avaliable agalnst
1mportatlon of such products through the Internatlonal Trade
Commlsslon, that remedy has problems whlch thls patent law
change would obvlate.
Industrlal property rlghts are fast becomlng a key lssue
1n the 1nternatlonal trade area. The government has
recognlzed that Amerlcan companles have a Vital 1nterest 1n
protectlng thelr proprletary posltlons abroad and that the
government should pay more attentlon to thls element of the
Amerlcan economy 1n forelgn trade deallngs. The government
15 now examlnlng the adequacy of 1ntellectual property
protectlon 1n the context of the general revlew of the asp
(G neral Systems of Preferences) program. The government 15
also revlewlng whether such 1nadequac1es of a tradlng
.partner constltute trade barrlers Hlthln the meanlng of the
Trade and Tarlff Act of 1934. The Commlttee has provlded,
and Hill contlnue to provlde, 1nput for the chemlcal
1ndustry m the v.5. Trade Representatlve's offlce on the
1nadequac1es of the 1ndustrlal property laws of Varlous
countrles. As mentloned earller, the v.5. Trade
Representatlve has 1n5t1tuted an 1nvest1gatlon under Sectlon
301 of the Trade Act agalnst South Korea. 1: 15 understood
that current negotlatlons mm the Korean government may
soon result 1n a settlement mm Significant 1mprovements 1n
Korean patent, trademark and copyrlght laws.
Addltlonally 1n the 1nternatlonal area, the Commlttee
contlnued to serve as chemlcal 1ndustry advlsor to the
government on 1nternatlonal conventlons and trestle: and on
cooperatlve governmental actlons 1n thls Eleld. Efforts by
3
the developlng countrles to revlse the Parls Conventlon to
permit a country to order forfelture or compulsory llcenslng
of a patent 15 1: 15 not worked Within a short tune after
grant have been successfully thwarted. The solld opposltlon
of Group B (developed countrles), whlch has coalesced under
the leadershlp of the U.s., 15 the reason for thls success.
Indeed. there are no further sesslons of the Dlplomatlc
Conference planned at thls time on that issue.
Eamonlzatlon of patent procurement law and procedures 15
becomlng an unportant and expandlng 1nternatlonal subject.
Adherence of the Unlted States to Chapter II of the Patent
Cooperatlon Treaty was revlewed by the Commlttee, and
Commlttee members were urged to support passage 1n thls
Congress of thls nonicontroverslal leglslatlon. Under
Chapter II v.5. patent appllcants Will be able to request an
1nternatlonal prellmlnary examlnatlon and delay enterlng the
natlonal phase on forelgn filings for an months from the
date of the v.5. filing. The Commlttee has provlded
comments supportlng a proposal for an 1nternatlonal grace
perlod for publlc dlsclosure of an inventlon before filing
wlthout loss of rlghts to patents. Patent appllcatlon
filing requlrements, procedures and tune deadllnes are
hamonlzatlon lssues that the Commlttee expects to revlew 1n
1935.
Concluslon
As I stated at the outset. the attltude of the courts 15
becomlng proipatent and thls has generally followed a
51mllar shlft In attltude Within the v.5. government,
especlally 1n the Department of Justlce and 1n the
Internatlonal trade area. These changes, whlch are
strengthenlng 1ndustrlal property protectlon, have not
occurred overnlght. They represent the frults of many years
of dlllgent effort on the part of many assoclated Hlth
patents. Includmg the cm Patent and Trademark Commlttee.
The time 15 rlpe m nmsn the job.
In 1995 the cm Patent
and Trademark Commlttee Hill contlnue to advocate cm
posltlons 1n support of patent reform leglslatlon, senslble
v.5. government patent pollcles, governmental actlons to
1mprove 1ndustrlal property protectlon for v.5. natlonals 1n
1nternatlonal markets and hamonlzatlon of patent
procurement law and practlce throughout the world.
CMA 039591
I
EXHIBIT N
CMA
AIR TDXICS
CONTROL
PoLIcy
t 5 tbs pollcy of cm to promote anon? 1:5 membar companles
c
a tlces that protect the safety and health of employees and of
ha raslde nts of communltles 1n whlch they operate. Our
nd us try' a goal 1: to assure that employees and communltles are
not advers ely affected by our operatlons.
CMA understands the publlc concern regardlng health effects from
releases 1nto the alr of toxlc materlals.
CMA also belleves there 15
a need for better 1nformatlon on the effect of these releases to
assure fully 1nfomed actlon by both government and 1ndustry.
Therefore. 1n order to protect employees, publlc health and the
envlronment, CMA member companles are undertaklng a major program to
expand and expedlte efforts to minimize accldental air releases of
toxlc materlals. control process emlsslons and 1ncrease understandlng
of the health effects from these releases and emlsslons.
Th1:
program, whlch 15 recommended for 1mplementatlon by each member
company at each of 1:5 operatlons, has the followlng actlon elements;
For
accldental
Identlfy materlals whlch 15 released could pose
a rlsk of harm to employees, communlty health or safety.
Use the best avaliable sclentlflc Infomatlon and
procedures to assess the potentlal for accldental releases
1n quantltles sufflclent to adversely affect employees, communlty
health or safety.
Instltute programs as needed to protect employees and the
communlty from such potentlal releases.
Vlgorously support and unplement the cm Communlty Awareness
and Emergency Response program, and the Natlonal Chemlcal
Response and Infomatlon Center programs 7 cammm,
CHSMNET. Emergency Response Training and chemlcal Referral
Center.
releases:
process emlsslons:
Accelerate the development of an 1nventory of exlstlng air
toxlcs emlsslons.
Use the best avaliable sclentlflc 1nfomatlon and procedures
to assess the unpact of these emlsslons on employees and the
surroundlng communlty and m determlne the adequacy of
control technology 1n place.
Move rapldly to reduce these emlsslons as needed to
safeguard employees, publlc health and the envlronment.
Communlcate the results of these actlons to approprlate
communltles and government agencles.
To 1ncrease understandlng of the health effects of both types of
releases. member companles are encouraged to work actlvely mm
employees, customers and 1nterested publlc and governmental groups
expand the base of knowledge on the health effects of alr toxlcs.
m
CMA and 1:: member companles Hill perlodlcally reassess thls program
as addltlonal sclentlflc 1nformatlon and technologlcal 1mprovements
become avaliable.
January
1995
exmm:
pnocwmms
n
ma coNsIDERATIoN m IMPLEMENTING THE CMA AIR
TDXICS CONTROL PoLICy
Durlng the development of the CMA Alr Toxlcs Control pollcy many
posslble 1mplementatlon procedures were 1dent1£1ed as ways,
among others, of achlevlng the pollcy's deslred results.
The
purpose of thls document 15 to catalog these 1mplementatlon
procedures.
Th1: listing will facllltate member companles'
declslon mattlng on whlch programmatlc elements to 1ntegrate 1nto
chalr standard operatlng procedures.
Among these are the
followlng:
1
ACCIDENTAL RELEASES
Llstlng of
Materlals and Estlmatlng potentlal Releases
Identlfy materlals whlch 15 released accldentally could
pose a rlsk of ham to employees, communlty health or
safety.
Characterlze
sources
of potentlal accldental releases.
c.. Calculate or develop reasonable estlmates of
potentlal for accldental releases.
Impact and Control
the
Technology Assessment
Model or otherwlse develop reasonable estlmates
potentlal communlty impact.
of
Evaluate the adequacy of exlstlng accldental release
preventlon programs/technology to safeguard employees,
publlc health and the envlronment.
Preventlve Measures and Other
Accldental Releases
Actlons
to Reduce
the
Rlsk of
Since each faclllty, process and chemlcal has dlfferent
characterlstlcs, the approach chosen to reduce the rlsk of
accldental releases will Vary, but could be selected from
one or more of ther followlng programmatlc elements, among
othersl
Monltorlng and detectlon
materlals.
for
release of hlghly hazardous
Routlne inspection and malntenance programs
safety and release control devlces.
for process
CMA 039593
Employee training 1nclud1ng release preventlon,
and countermeasure programs. ..
d. Revlew of
the deslgn of new and exlstlng equlpment.
Utlllzatlon of
constructlon.
natlonal consensus
Safety and hazard audlt
basls .
Installatlon of redundant process controls,
contalnment and/or destructlon equlpment.
Establlshment of an
program.
4. CAER and mum Program
conducted on
for
a
regular
secondary
1nventory management/reductlon
Implementatlon
Implement CARR program elements.
Partlclpate to the maxlmum extent posslble 1n mum
program (1.e., cammm, CHEMNET, Emergency Response
Tralnlng, and Chemlcal Referral Center).
Support carrler
PROCESS EMISSIONS
Emlsslons
surveys
standards
II
control
1nspectlon and
training programs”
1nventory
Identlfy process emlsslon polnts.
Characterlze materlals
Monltor. calculate. or otherwlse develop reasonable
estlmates of amounts of process emlsslons.
that are emltted.
Impact Assessment and Control
Technology Assessment
Model. monltor, or otherwlse develop reasonable estlmates
of the 1mpact 1n the communlty.
Evaluate the adequacy of exlstlng control technology
effectlveness to safeguard employees, communlty publlc
health and the envlronment.
Control Measures
and other Actlons
Since each faclllty,
characterlstlcs, the
process emlsslons as
process. and chemlcal has dlfferent
approach chosen to reduce air toxlcs
needed will Vary, but could be 5 lasted
CMA 039594
In
among othan :
the followlng programmatlc elements,
a. Monltorlng emlsslons for process control purposes,
111
Routlne inspection and malntenance programs
safety and emlsslon control devlces,
for
process
The utlllzatlon of
natlonal consensus
Safety and hazard
basls.
Percentage
Establlshment of an amblent air guldellnes approach as
the basls for emlsslons control.
approprlate control technology and/or
standards for constructlon.
audlt surveys
reductlon programs
as
conducted on a
regular
requlred.
EXPAND THE EASE 01> mowmmg mu AIR TDXICS
HEALTH EFFECTS
EMISSIONS
Make avaliable m 1nterested partles
1nihouse research and studles.
results
Encourage cooperatlve studles and/or .jolnt research mm
government and other thlrds partles <e.g., unlversltles,
prlvate organlzatlons, companles).
January
the
of
1995
CMA 039595
EXHIBIT p
Superfund Status Report
Leglslatlve Revlew
By Wells Denyes, Eastman Kodak Company
on December 10, 1933, the House passed 1:: Superfund b111, on a
Vote of 391 C0 33. thls flnal actlon came after three days of floor
debatE, 1nclud1ng one sesslon that ran past mldnlght. Th1: followed
nearly a month of dlscusslon and compromlse between the prlnclpal
commlttees, who had jurlsdlctlon for thls leglslatlon, on how to brlng
the dlfferlng Verslons :9 Che floor for conslderatlon.
on October 10 the House Publlc Works and Transportatlon Commlttee
reported thelr Superfund b111, but dld not Elle thelr report untll over
a month later. Th1: created delay Since 1: was necessary for the
prlnclpal commlttees, Energy and Commerce, and Publlc Works and Transportatlon,
along Hlth Merchant Marlne and Flsherles, and Judlclary, to reach agreement
on a compromlse package whlch would be offered for floor debate. Th1:
scicalled "mnkconserence" consumed most of November. and 1: was not untll
December 4 chat agreement had been reached and all were able to meet Hlth
the Rules Commlttee.
In October the House Ways and Means Commlttee agreed upon a fundlng
package that relled prlnclpally upon a Superfund Exclse Tax slmllar
m the one adopted by the Senate. Th1: fundlng provlslon became part
of the package adopted for House floor conslderatlon.
Durlng House floor debate, three controverslal amendments became the central
focus of debate. The flrst, an amendment by Congressman Edgar ”Hm, whlch
'was adopted by a Vote of 212 m 211, adds reportlng of chronlc hazards to
the communlty rlghtitoiknow sectlon. Th1: provlslon 15 Similar to the
Senate sectlon that was authored by Senator Lautenbcrg (Drum.
The second major floor issue was an amendment offered by Congressman
Frank mimm to add a federal cause of actlon provlslon. Th1: was defeated
152 to 251. Th1: means that both the Senate and the House have now
rejected a Vlctlms compensatlon or federal cause of actlon provlslon co
Superfund.
The mum controverslal amendment was on fundlng.
By a Vote of 220 m 205
she House adopted an amendment by Congressman Downey (Drum as a substltute
for she Ways and Means Commlttee proposal. Mr. Downey's amendment relles
almost entlrely on she chemlcal and 011 Industrles for tax revenue to
fund a Elva year, SID bllllon Superfund. The Downey proposal 1ncreases
chemlcal feedstock taxes by about 50%, Hlth Che bulk of thls Increase bemg
a nearly trlpled tax on 1norgan1c substances. The tax on petroleum 15
1ncreased by over ten tunes, or 15 the fundlng for she new 011 splll and
underground storage tank programs are Included, petroleum taxes
would 1ncrease by nearly twenty tunes. Also 1ncluded 15 a wet waste
management tax whlch CMA has opposed. The n wney proposal does Include
substantlal general revenues. Attached 1: a cable whlch summarlzes the
revenue provlslons 1n present law and of the Senate and House passed mus.
CMA 039595
The Senate and House have now both passed leglslatlon extendlng Superfund
for Elva years. The two mus have Significant dlfferences. on the
programmatlc 51dE, the Senate mu can be llkened to an outllne descrlblng
how the luvplementatlon of Superfund Will be changed, but leavlng the detalls
m the dlscretlon of EPA, The House b111, although 51ml“, £1115 1n that
outllne and leaves llttle dlscretlon to EPA. These dlfferences must be
resolved 1n conference. The dlfferences 1n fundlng are far more substantlal.
The Senate mu calls for $7.5 bllllon, most of whlch would come from a
broad based tax 153m. The House mm 15 larger and relles almost entlrely
on the chemlcal and 011 1ndustr1es for 1:: revenues.
Durlng the flnal week before Congress adjourned on December 20, the
Superfund taxlng proposals got caught up 1n the debate on the budget
reconclllatlon mu. Senator Packwood miom, Chalrman of the Senate
Flnance CommlttEE, attached the Senate passed Superfund fundlng proposal
to thls reconclllatlon mm. The House rejected thls proposal and for
several days thls mu moved back and forth between the Senate and the
House Hlth each party rejectlng the Superfund fundlng proposal of the ocher
on several recorded Voces. The net result was chat the budget reconclllatlon
mu riled Hlth adjournment, prlmarlly because of the dlfferences over
Superfund.
When Congress returns on January 21, 1935, the dlfferences 1n the
programmatlc portlon should not be dlfflcult, although several are Important
and Hill requlre conpromlse. The dlfferences 1n the fundlng are far more
substantlve and are llkely to requlre some Significant changes 1n
posltlon by the partles 1nvolved.
Untll Congress returns and conferees are appolnted. 1: remalns too early
to develop a detalled strategy almed at reachlng an acceptable taxlng
mechanlsm. CMA contlnues Co advocate 117 a freeze 1n the feedstock tax.
127 opposltlon m the Haste End Tax Included 1n the House b111, and
137 support of the need for and the equlty of a large broad based
1ncrement of fundlng.
CMA
CMA 039597
I
Attachment
MILLIONS 0F DOLLARS PER YEAR
PRESENT LAW
SENATE
30st
FEEDSTDCKS
DRGANICS
222
222
299
39
39
112
4a
4a
530
as
WASTE TAX
SET
1144
IMPORT TAX
13
44
317
55
en
LUST
17m
ANNUAL TOTAL
351
1507
2075
monsmms
PETROLEUM SF
OIL SPILL
GENERAL REVENUE
57mm TOTAL
51.9 Bllllon
$7.5 Bllllon
510.4 Bllllon
CMA 039599
1n conductlng Similar programs. 1: was agreed that thls Issue would be examlned
as well prior to the March meetlng.
cm 039559
2315
commumcnmus COMMITTEE
Mr. Thompson presented the annual report of the Communlcatlons Commlti
He revlewed the publlc con*
cerns 1dent1£1ed 1n 3 recent Cambrldge survey. The areas the commlttee has
Identlfled as high priorities for 1995/97 1ncluded: CAER/NCRIC unplementatlon;
state are communlcatlons support; leglslatlve advocacy support for CMA/CICS;
1ncreased actlvlty by senlor executlves 1n communlcatlons actlvltles; and rlsk
perceptlon. He recommended the followlng speclflc actlons m unprove performance
1n the communlcatlons area: Idemnlflcatlon of plant managers agalnst the rlsks of
worklng mm the press, and ensurlng that company emergency communlcatlons proce*
dures are as upitoidate as the company emergency response procedures.
tee > a summary of whlch 15 contalned 1n Exhlblt L.
PATENT AND TRADEMARK COMMITTEE
Mr. D'Brlen presented the annual report of the Patent and Trademark
CommlttEE, a summary of whlch 15 contalned 1n Exmm: M.
AIR TDXICS CONTROL POLICY
Mr. Sorgentl and Mr. Berryman outllned the evolutlon of the proposed
program to address the air toxlcs issue. Mr. Sorgentl reported on the actlvltles
of the ad hoc Executlve Commlttee group comprlsed of hlmself, Messrs. Forney,
McKennon and Street. and representatlves of the Envlronmental Management Commlttee
whlch had been appolnted to resolve CMA'S pollcy on thls lssue followlng the
October Board meetlng. Mr. Berryman Introduced the other presenters and thelr
1nd1v1dual segments.
Mr. Holladay reported on the status of exlstlng federal and state lav
regulatlng toxlc alr emlsslons. He also descrlbed Varlous proposals pendlng or
expected to be 1ntroduced In the Congress and the states 1n 1935.
Mr. Symuleskl presented the proposed pollcy and related Implementatlon
procedures on air toxlcs emlsslons and revlewed 1n detall what was Intended by
Varlous elements of the proposal.
Mr. Kelley presented an overvlew of the package of leglslatlve pump
ples whlch had been developed to address 37 dlstlnct leglslatlve lssues 1nvolved
1n alr toxlcs. Mr. Marchesanl descrlbed how the pollcy, optlons/procedures
document. and the leglslatlve prlnclples were all Integrated. Examples were
presented of how the preferred, acceptable and worst case scenarlos 1n the leglsi
latlve prlnclples are based on the pollcy and the Varlous 1mplementatlon
procedures contemplated thereunder.
Mr. Roland presented an overvlew of the Assoclatlon's tentatlve plans
for unplementlng the pollcy, 1nclud1ng optlons for a publlc announcement In March
and concepts for enllstlng, supportlng and documentlng member company parnmpr
tlon. He 1nd1cated a work plan was under development and that an interdika
pllnary team of commlttee members and staff would be charged Hlth ongolng development and executlon of that plan.
cm 039559
2315
Conslderable dlscusslon followed concernlng the language 1n the pollcy
and 1mplementatlon procedures. Several amendments to the pollcy and
luvplementatlon procedures were made. The 1mportance of belng able to document
member companles' perfomance pursuant to the pollcy was stressed.
0N MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1: was
voTED: That the proposed pollcy on air
toxlcs control, as amended and set forth In
Exmm: N. be approved.
The Board agreed that 1: was 1napproprlate for 1: to formally Vote on
the 1mplementatlon procedures. However, 1: was also agreed that the procedures
were an Important document and that the suggestlons made by the Board to amend
them should be 1ncorporated and that the document should be subject to revlew and
updatlng by the EMC as the program evolved. The 1mplementatlon procedures, as
amended by the Board, are set forth In Exhibit D.
on behalf of the Board. Chalrman Sella expressed appreclatlon for the
dlstlngulshed efforts of the ad hoc commlttee and the entlre EMC.
swmuvumu Rmumonrznmu
Assoclatlon Actlvltles 7 Mr. Stover presented an overvlew of recent
developments and related Assoclatlon actlvltles and strategles. Mr. Stover
expressed his gratltude to the Dow Chemlcal Company for the outstandlng contrlbui
tlon made by Mr. Lee Nuts 1n servlng as the Superfund project manager durlng the
past year.
Leglslatlve Status 7 Mr. nenyes~ report 15 attached as Exhlblt P.
He hlghllghted the llkely makeup of the Bonsaisenate Conference Commlttee and the
”potentlal areas of confllCt. and some posslble scenarlos for resolutlon. The
unpact of Gramm/Rudman/Rolllngs and the tax recom debate were also dlscussed.
Mr. Denys: identified some ongolng areas of cm actlvlty, 1nclud1ng the targetlng
of conferees, as well as members of the Senate Flnance Commlttee and the House
Ways and Means Commlttee. The Varlous fundlng optlons bemg consldered by the
Congress were dlscussed.
Chalman Sella revlewed the program Implemented last October and
November of senlor executlve Visits Hlth members of Congress. He requested chat
the Assoclatlon's plan contlnue to Include utlllzatlon of Board members and other
senlor executlves 1n Visits Hlth the conferees and the Admlnlstratlon. Messrs.
Denys: and Stover Indlcated that thls was part of the work plan and would be
utlllzed as approprlate. Mr. Sella relterated ms bellef that thls was an
extremely Important actlvlty whlch should be aggresslvely pursued.
Fundlng Pollcy 7 Chalrman Sella reported on the Executlve Commlti
tee's dlscusslons regardlng the Assoclatlon's pollcy on Superfund fundlng. He
indicated, based largely on the 1nput from the Government Relatlons Commlttee and
staff, that the Executlve Commlttee agreed that no change 1n the Assoclatlon's
cm 039570
2317
fomal pollcy on Superfund fundlng was necessary and chat the Assoclatlon would
aggresslvely advocate the followlng polnts In the Conference Commlttee debate:
Freeze the feedstock tax at exlstlng levels.
Strongly oppose the Downey amendment language.
Support a broadibased fundlng component.
there bemg no further busmess, the meetlng was adjourned at 12:15 p.m.
Charles w. Van Vlack
Corporate Secretary
Certlfled correct:.
cm 039571
EXHIBIT A
Report of the Chemlcal 1ndustry Trade Advlsor
to'the Board of Dlrectors
of the
Chemlcal Manufacturers Assoclatlon
January 27, 1995
My comments are dlrected to trade pollcy 7 7 thls mornlng 7 and what I belleve m be our 1ndustry's concerns. Hopefully 7 7 they
will dove*tall Hlth Al Spllner's CMA Internatlonal Trade Commlttee
Report.
I wlsh my report thls mornlng had better news.
7 on trade matters 7 7 we contlnue to lose ground.
Unfortunately 7
our tctal 1ndustry sales 7 7 to overseas markets 7 7 and produce
another IS 7 20a abroad. As an 1ndustry 7 7 we are one of Amerlca's
major 1nternatlonal traders. Only agrlculture 7 7 and electronlc
manufacture* compare mm our 1ndustry 7 7 1n 1nternatlonal trade
accounts.
In Washlngton 7 7 Both the executlve and leglslatlve branches of
government 7 7 have become mere 1nterested 1n trade durlng the past
year. But the resultlng patchwork qullt of initiatives 15 confused 7 nd 7 7 1n some 1nstances 7 7 counterproductlve (1.e. tax pollcyy.
Same mu: 7 7 to be sure 7 7 are welliconcelved. Others 7 unfortunately 7 7 run the gamut from polltlcal posturlng 7 7 to
downrlght foollsh gunsllnglng. We cannot assume that wlsdom 7 7 or
common sense 7 7 will carry the day. Just look at the democratlc tax
mu 7 7 as the latest example 7 7 of how badly our 1ndustry has been
treated.
Furthermore 7 7 1n the marketplace 7 7 we're seemg the emergence
of powerful new competltors 7 7 dlfferent competltors than we nlght
have envlsloned only a few years ago.
The gulf states 011 producers no longer hold world users on a
short leash. Today they have abundant cheap feedstock: 7 7 new lowcoast productlon capaclty 7 7 and plenty of lhcentlve 7 7 to sell a
lot of valuewadded petrochemlcals 1n our markets. That lhcentlve
grows dally as the price of that 011 barrel drops. We were all too
clearly remlnded of thls by Saudl plannlng Mlnlster Hlsham Nazlr at
CMA'S October conference.
If you follow trade statlstlcs 7 7 you know that the v.5. has
had an 1ncreaslng merchandlse trade deficit Since 1980. In 1995 7 and thls 15 rough because all the numbers haven't been totted up 7 1: looks as 15 tha trade deficit Will be over 5140431111“ 7 7 up at
cm 039572
2
least 14% from 1984's deflclt. As recently as 1980 7 7 we had a
manufacturlng trade surplus of $57bllllon.
Notwlthstandlng thls natlonal dlsaster 7 7 our chemlcal 1ndustry
5:111 achleved a statlstlcal trade surplus 7 7 estlmated to be $7.6bllllon for 1935. Although we seem to be holdlng our own 1n chemlcal
exports 7 7 an estlmated $22.27bllllon 1n 1995 7 7 chemlcal 1mports
have been 1ncreaslng rapldly 7 7 by about 11% per year Since 1980.
They reached a record $14.67bllllon last year 7 7 and the USA...5 share
of world trade 7 7 decllned for the 5th stralght year.
In other words 7 7 our 1ndustry trade surplus has dropped by
almost $12.27bllllon.
Myron Foveaux recently gave his annual publlc trade
prognostlcatlon for 1935. Myron's numbers are based on the forecasts
7 7 that he obtalns from about 45 of our chemlcal companles. He
forecasts our exports Will be flat 1n 1995 7 7 desplte the weakenlng
of the dollar 7 7 and that 1mports Will be up about 3.5 percent 7 to about 515.1 mllllon. That will result 1n another 7 percent
decllne 1n our trade surplus for the year 7 7 to about $7 bllllon.
1ncreaslng share of our markets at home 7 7 to forelgnibased
producers.
Lest we draw consolatlon from the fact that we have any trade
surplus at all 7 7 let's dlssect 1:5 meanlng. A trade surplus 7 means that the sales of our exports 7 7 exceed the sales of unported
chemlcals sold 1n the v.5. As you know 7 7 sales alone doesn't mean
much 15 your pockets are empty at the end of the tradlng day.
I belleve our trade plcture 7 7 15 slot gloomler than our
projected $7.1 bllllon surplus suggests. If we had a way to
calculate a trade profltablllty balance 7 7 the net effect of
chemlcal exports Versus unports 7 7 on our aggregate bottom llne 7 would 1: 5:111 be a surplus? I doubt 1:.
(In the export slde of the ledger 7 7 I suspect a lot of
companles are exportlng near costs 7 7 to preserve or bulld Volume.
Conslder the comment by me presldent George Kennedy 7 7 In the New
York Tlmes Last January 7 7 "We've malntalned 7 7 or 1n some cases
of our profltablllty 7 7 that's another story. We've had to cut them
7 7 1n order to make up for the strong dollar."
Even 15 the v.5. can sustaln a weaker dollar 7 7 our exports
5:111 face a myrlad of problems 7 7 High tarlffs 7 7 nonitarlff
barrlers 7 7 subsldlzed natlonallzed competltors 7 7 cheaper
feedstock: 7 7 and our own unlque brand of leglslatlve unpedlments 7 1nclud1ng the burdensome a St of regulatlon.
cm 039573
3
"exports." But trade means exports 7 7 and 1mports. And that
1ncreaslng unport flgure 7 7 should cause our 1ndustry to get cur
antenna up.
Are we 51mply bemg outgunned 1n our home markets by better
products and productlvlty abroad? or 7 7 are we the Vlctlm of overt
and covert subsldles 7 7 the largesse of our own asp system 7 7 our
open markets 7 7 and the adverse effect of an overvalued dollar?
Trade should be a twoiway street 7 7 but 1n many initiatives 7 7 both
trafflc lanes seem to be comlng our way.
Each of our companles are unpasted by forelgn competltlon
problems. Our exports have pretty much stagnated. Imports are
causlng price 7 7 and Volume rlpples 7 7 1n many of the domestlc
markets. Our own government has negotlated away a piece of our
1ndustry 7 7 bromlne products 7 t to Israel wlthout as ouch as a byyoupleave. The prospect of further concesslons 7 7 Canada 7 Mexlco 7 7 and a new round of trade talks 7 7 are not Vlslble on our
horlzon.
Some of our executlves have stated 7 7 that your companles
cannot tolerate further tarlff concesslons. Perlod!
1 belleve there 15 a sense Within the 1ndustry 7 7 that past
multllateral trade agreements have not always been mutually equltable
7 7 that our chemlcal 1ndustry has given a lot 7 7 wlthout gettlng
Very much 1n return. Regardless 7 7 the admlnlstratlon 15 commltted
to a further openlng of the u.S. market 7 7 through both the
bllateral and multllateral processes. It's pretty much of a "falt
...accomple" that several key events 7 7 broad free trade negotlatlons
mm Canada 7 7 and a New GATT Round 7 Hill begln Within the next
13 months 7 and Mexlco's current problems can become our 1ndustry's
problem Very shortly.
Concernlng the future Multllateral Trade Negotlatlons 7 7 I
belleve that 1:: not reallstlc that we oppose an MTN. 1: will
support the process.
We should be asslgnlng our top 1nternatlonal people to help
develop sound 1ndustry pollcy. We need cogent arguments. And we
need allles 1n other 1ndustr1es 7 7 to ensure that our 1ndustry Will
be falrly treated 7 7 and not glven up as a sacrlflclal lamb.
Bellave me 7 7 thls 15 a Very unportant exerclse 7 7 A5 v.5. Bromlne
producers learned 7 7 Durlng the U.S.*Israel Eras trade process.
They were lucky 7 7 m at least avold a preclpltous removal of
bromlne tarlffs ar.d 7 7 1nstead 7 7 are experlenclng an extended
phase*down.
The CMA Board was presented Hlth an 1nternatlonal Trade
Comlttee*recommended statement of prlnclples concernlng a New GATT
Round. Al Spllnar Hill dlscuss the ITC posltlon 1n more detall.
cm 039574
These prlnclples art 7 7 of course 7 ~ general 7 7 but they contaln
some unportant concepts:
7 7 The ellmlnatlon of trade dlstortlng practlces 7 7 subsldles
precedence over tarlff reductlon actlvltles. An MTN should be
prlmarlly a tarlffiswapplng meet.
7 7 Trade pollcy should not be subordlnated to our forelgn
producers are asked to pay the price 7 7 for forelgn pollcy galns.
7 7 The prlvate sector should not be cut out of the negotlatlons.
7 7 The MTN process should not restrlct 7 7 the Admlnlstratlon's
bllateral treaty effort.
7 7 Development of a binding dlspute settlement process 7 7 must
be part of a new round. Th1: 15 luvportant. The GATT Hill contlnue
to be a weak Sister 7 7 unless 1: 1: given sens teeth.
7 should be consldered on the basls
of forelgn requests 7 7 and 7 7 under no clrcumstances 7 7 should
they volunteered across*the*board.
7 Chemlcal tarlff concesslons 7 7 should not be made 1n
exchange for concesslons given to another v.5. 1ndustry. He are not
1n the busmess of dlspenslng charlty.
7 7 We also need an 1nvestment agreement 7 7 whlch will ensure
that we can sltuate productlon 7 7 where raw materlals avaliablllty
or markets dlctate. We need to have equal access to local flnanclng
of proflts can be repatrlated. Forelgn Natlonal tax pollcy 7 7 and
1nvestment 1ncent1ves 7 7 should be granted on a natlonal treatment
basls.
An Intellectual Property Pollcy 7 7 must be partiandiparcel of
any new agreement. a 2 n 15 the strength of our 1ndustry 7 7 our
"hold card". If we let 1: be acqulred 7 7 wlthout compensatlon 7 by forelgn competltors 7 7 He Will be glvlng away a cruclal part of
our future.
If you look at these statements 1n your brleflng books 7 you'll see that each 15 an unportant concept 7 7 not just a piece of
blue sky.
Trade leglslatlon 15 the other key 1nternatlonal area 7 7 mm
whlch we should be concerned. When I talk about trade leglslatlon
I'm focuslng on unport’related initiatives 7 7 changlng the 1mportremedy laws 7 7 and conslderlng the degree 7 7 torvhlch natural
resources subsldles should be countervalled.
cm 039575
7 5 There are 7 7 of course 7 7 Many exporprelated areas of law 7 that affect our trade competltlveness. Same such as forelgn corrupt
practlces and antkboycott 7 7 whlch were major causes a few years
bash 7 7 are 5:111 unresolved.
Reallstlcally 7 7 If we get a smgle omnlbus trade mu 7 7 1:
Will be an achlevement. Congress was 1n 3 dlther 1n 1995 and no
clear trade leglslatlon plcture emerged. Because 1995 15 an electlon
year 7 7 We have a pretty small wlndow 7 7 perhaps untll June for
somethlng to happen.
What that mu would flnally look llke 15 anybody's guess. The
elements of such a mu 7 7 will no doubt be drawn from several
proposals 7 7 that were 1ntroduced last sesslon and 7 7 posslbly 7 from the admlnlstratlon's own plan. So far 7 7 the admlnlstratlon
has kept 1:5 own suggested wordlng under wraps.
However 7 7 some key polnts to look for are:
7 7 General Trade competltlveness 7 7 several proposals have
been made 7 7 m establlsh a commlttee or councll 7 7 to evaluate the
effectlveness of cur trade laws and agreements 7 7 or to establlsh
what the general objectlve or our trade pollcy should be 7 7 or some
comblnatlon of the above. The object would be to elevate trade's
7 7 Exchange rates 7 7 proposals range from mandatory actlons 7 m achleve exchange rate parlty 7 7 m congresslonal statements "tha: a conference should be held 7 7 to explore optlons and
mechanlsms 7 7 to prevent exchange rate fluctuatlons.
Varlatlons of a statement 7 7 to authorlze the Admlnlstratlon 7 7 m
negotlate 1n 3 New MTN Round. Some proposals go as far as m 115:
detalled negotlatlng objectlves. The House Republlcans' proposal 7 Alone 7 7 Addresses U.S.*Canada free trade .
clause" whlch would allow elther Congress 7 7 the Admlnlstratlon 7 or a prlvate entlty 7 7 to request an 1nvest1gatlon 7 7 whether an
1ndustry 15 bemg 1njured due to 1mports. Unfalr trade practlces
need not be proven. The Varlous proposals would requlre 1ndustry 7 m commlt m an adjustment plan 7 7 In return for a favorable flndlng
7 7 would give the Presldent less dlscretlon 1n overrldlng ITC
findings 7 7 and would shorten the processlng tune for petltlons.
really an export provlslon. 1: gives the presldent the authorlty "Wm retallate agalnst unfalr forelgn trade practlces or barrlers.
Varlous proposals 7 7 would 7 7 agaln 7 7 shorten the processlng time
7 7 1nclude "targetlng... as an unfalr practlce 7 7 and would mandate
speclflc 0.5. retallatlon measures 7 7 agalnst unfalr processes. As
mm Sectlon 201 7 7 Congress wants to tlghten these remedles 7 7
cm 039575
a
maklng them more usable by busmess 7 7 and more predlctable 1n thelr
outcome.
7 7 1ntellectual property rlghts 7 7 several proposals want to
tlghten the prosecutlon of Vlolators 7 7 and ease the process of
uncoverlng such Violations. Th1: 15 partlcularly unportant to
pharmaceutlcals 7 7 and pestlelde producers.
7 ~ Export Flnance 7 7 House Democrats 7 7 favor 1ncreased
future fundlng for threat lendlng. House Republlcans 7 7 on the
other hand 7 7 want treasury and exqm to have authorlty to match
mlxed credlts.
The other major unport’related lssue 7 7 and thls one may end up
1n the omnlbus trade package 7 7 15 the questlon of whether upstream
subsldles 7 7 should be countervallable. As flrst proposed by
Representatlve Sam Glbbons 1n 1994 7 7 v.5. Companles would be able
to get rellef 7 7 1n the fom for countervalllng dutles 7 7 when
unports beneflt substantlally 7 7 from the use of a natural resource
1n the manufacturlng country. Beneflt would be assumed 7 7 when the
natural resource 1: avaliable to the forelgn manufacturers 7 7 at a
price "lower than the export price 7 7 or falr market value 7 whlchever 15 approprlate."
Th1: upstream subsldles lssue 7 7 15 a real Corker for the
chemlcal 1ndustry 7 7 We have companles who are strongly on opposlte
Sides of the issue.
At am we have a Very actlve worklng group 7 7 they met qulte a
few tunes 7 7 durlng a relatlvely short perlod 1n 1934. That group
was split rlght down the mddle over thls provlslon of the Glbbon's
mu.
At NAM 7 7 the same thlng happened 7 7 rlght down the mlddle.
The 1nternatlonal trade pendulum 7 7 has swung totally 1n the
opposlte dlrectlon Since 1980. Our maln concerns at the beglnnlng of
the decade 7 7 were export orlented 7 7 offenslve measures. Now the
lssues are prlmarlly import orlented 7 7 defenslve measures deslgned
to protect our domestlc markets.
lee the patrlots last nlght 7 7 We have to get our offense
worklng.
Admlnlstratlon 7 7 that all major leglslatlon initiatives 7 7 must be
consldered 1n llght of how they affect our trade competltlveness.
The tax initiative 7 Superfund 7 7 Export of Hazardous Substances
balanced agalnst thelr trade effects 7 7 whlch translate dlrectly
1nto jobs.
A5 The Chemlcal Industry Trade Advlsor 7 7 My role 15 m be a
focal polnt 7 7 for the 4 key chemlcal groups I mentloned earller 7
cm 039577
t
7 and to assure that 7 7 as much as posslble 7 7 our 1ndustry speaks
as a smgle Volce.
I am occaslonally asked to dellver commlttee testlmony 7 7 1n
support of a pollcy recommendatlon 7 7 that has the blessmg of those
groups.
I Will also report to you perlodlcally 7 7 on developments about
whlch you should be aware 7 7 or whlch requlre hlgh level 1ndustry
actlon.
need your 1nput 7 7 and your support.
Last September 7 7 CMA'S ITC held a 2*day plannlng conference.
Commlttee members were asked to brlng a copy 7 7 of a publlc
statement about trade 7 7 made by a senlor executlve of thelr
respectlve cempanles. The ITC
7 7 that about half the companles present 7 7 had no senlor
executlve who had spoken out on trade 7 7 no executlve to champlon
trade pollcy actlvltles 1n the company.
A sound trade pollcy 7 7 for out 1ndustry 7 7 requlres a long*
tam commltment from all members of thls Board. If our 1ndustry 15
to remaln 1nternatlonally competitive 7 7 we must all become 1nvolved
7 7 1n convmcmg the admlnlstratlon 7 7 that the future of
manufacturlng 7 7 1n thls country 7 7 requlres the development 7 7 of
an aggresslve trade pollcy 1n1tlatlve.
Each of you has a measure of clout
and key members of Congress. Let's put
'Internatlonal Trade Commlttee's efforts
rules 7 7 for our 1ndustry's 1ndustry's
mm the Admlnlstratlon 7 some of 1: behlnd CMA...5
7 7 m reestabllsh the ground
1nternatlonal competltlveness.
Thank you.
cm 039579
5
EXHIBIT B
Remarks :9 CMA'S Board of Dlrectors
by Allan J,
Chalman.
Spllner
Internatlonal Trade Commlttt”
January 27.
1995
Thank you.
Hr. Chalman, and thank you. Dexter. for your
...xcallant summary of tha trada sltuatlon and tha trada pollcy
lssuas tha (J. 5. chamlcal 1ndustry 15 faclng.
Th1: mornlng. I
Will touch on soma of thasa lssuas. and Hill revlew what CMA'S
1ntarnatlonal Trada Commlttaa accompllshad 1n 1993 and what 1:
plans for 1935.
Also. what Ha axpact to ask of tha Board 1n
1935.
flrst. a brlaf ravlaw of tha 1ndustry's rasults 1n 1933.
Shlpm nts Bra astlmatad to hava sat anothar naw racord of
5217.4 bllllon, about 3% above 1934.
Nat 1ncoma aftar taxas was
sin. a bllllon. 19a balow 1984's racord hlgh and about equal to
...arn1ngs 1n 1979. whan shlpmants Nara only ~147 bllllon.
Myron Foveaux's analysls 1nd1catas that tha 19% drop 1n nat
...arn1ngs was dua> at 1335: 1n part, to unpracadantad wrlte*offs
agalnst earnlngs durlng tha yaar.
In 1935. wrltaioffs Bra
...xpectad to contlnua. but at a raducad laval.
Shlpmants Bra
...xpact d to 1ncraasa by 3%.
Nat Earnings Bra axpactad to
1ncraasa by 10%.
Dexter mantlonad tha v.5. chamlcal 1ndustry's trada surplus,
whlch fall from ~12.2 mumn 1n 1980 to ~7.a bllllon 1n 1933.
and 15 axpactad to drop furthar to W. 1 bllllon 1n 1935.
Vlewed
.nothar way. Exports 1ncraasad only «2 bllllon, or a total of 7%.
0 er tha flvaiyaar parlod from 1980 to 1933. whlla unports
1 craasad «a bllllon, or 70%. durlng tha sama parlod.
u less
has trand 15 ravarsad. tha trada surplus could dlsappaar 1n tha
t tura.
Wy Bra Exports baraly holdlng thalr own whlla unports contlnua
t 1ncraasa at a ralatlvaly rapid rats? Part of tha trand mlght
b. dua to changlng comparatlva advantaga ovar whlch Ha hava no
cntrol.
?.rt of 1: mlght also ha dua to tha 5:111 ralatlvaly
h gh Valua of tha dollar.
H-wavar. soma of tha trand 15
c.rt31nly dua m othar factors such as rastrlctad accass to
5. sign markats.
I
c n 039579
M.ket access restrlctlons often take the form of high tarlffs
us-d to protect relatlvely 1nefflc1ent local producers.
Ac ass
15 also restrlcted by lau»: requlrlng owners of patents 1n certaln
to sign countrles to produce the product 1n that country or lose
ex luslve rlghts to the patent.
In such cases“ the patent owner 15 sometlmes prohlblted from
1 ortlng the patented product 1nto that country when a local
pruducer decldes to make 1: there“ and 15 also prohlblted from
co lectlng royaltles from that producer.
Setlon 301 of v. s. trade law authorlzes the Presldent m
reallate agalnst the unfalr practlces of forelgn governments or
1n-trumentallt1es whlch harm v. s. exports“ but 301 only applies
to nonitar 155 barrlers whlch Violate 1nternatlonal trade
ageements.
At the present tune" there are no effectlvely
enorceable 1nternatlonal agreements on 1ntellectual property
mm: such as patents.
Ne ertheless. C11A 15 already on record 1n strong support for the
es .bllshment of such agreements and“ where approprlate” has
1n uded statements to that effect 1n testlmony over the last 5 w
ya. 5.
The trend of rlslng 1mports mlght also be due" 1n part, to the
vm ed States bemg overly generous 1n contlnulng to grant duty?
Ere entry under the Generallzed System of Preferences (Gs?) to
impurts of ellglble products from developlng countrles whose
proucers are now fully competitive Hlth producers 1n the
1nd strlallzed countrles.
cm addressed the asp issue when renewal leglslatlon was
proosed.
The CMA posltlon advocated strlcter standards for
grauatlon of beneflclary countrles from dutyifree treatment of
impmrts under 651» 1n cases where preferentlal access to the v.5.
mar et 15 no longer needed.
A t Qitlered system of beneflts was 1ncluded 1n the renewal of
asp 1n the Trade and Tarlff Act of 1934.
Reg latlons
1mp ementlng the twoitler System Will be lssued later thls year
on nompletlon of the Admlnlstratlon's twoiyear study to detemln
mun countrles should recelve whlch level of beneflts.
The
Int-rnatlonal Trade Commlttee Hill revlew the regulatlons to make
sur- they are adequate.
In eallng Hlth these and other lssues affectlng trade“ the
Co ‘ lttee's prlmary concerns are that the v. s. ctremlcal 1ndustry
be rested falrly, and that any trade negotlatlons result 1n
1m: eased export and 1nvestment opportunltles.
72 A 039590
for the procttt 1:: If, C11A member companles, actlng through
the Trade Commlttee and then the Board. must flrst reach
consensus on the lssue".
The cm must lobby the Congress, the
Adm lstratlon and the trade negotlators, as approprlate, to make
mu 5 happen.
as
am obbymg Hill 1nvolve not only the Internatlonal Trade
Co ttee and QCITA. but also the Government Relatlons
Co thee.
Depe ding on the issue, we may even ask that some of
you .ecome 1nvolved 1n the lobbylng effort.
Afte all. as the
head 1ne of an artlcle 1n the January lssue of Dun's Buslness
Mont put 1:, ...CED'5 Make the Best Lobbulsts."
A5 3 example. am
such efforts can be and have been effectlve.
memb-rs were largely responslble for the 1n5ertlon 1nto the
rene 51 of the Generallzed System of Preferences and 1nto the
Carl-bean Basln Economlc Recovery Act ("c1315 of provlslons for
the rotectlon of the 1ntellectual property of v. s. companles 1n
coun rles covered by the leglslatlon.
mm L; 15 also unportant.
For axlmum effectlveness, we may need
to pom te cm posltlons m the Admlnlstratlon before the
Adm lstratlon's posltlon has been announced.
Afte wards 15
ofte too late to get anythlng changed.
mm that as background, I Will revlew what the Trade Commlttee
acco llshed 1n 1999 and what 1: plans for 1935.
Ella anal and multllateral trade initiatives were the most
mpo tan: lssues taken up by the Internatlonal Trade Commlttee 1n
1999
The Commlttee developed, and the Board approved, 3 cm posltlon
on bllateral ﬁresitrade negotlatlons between the Unlted States
and Canada.
The CMA posltlon supports the reclprocal ellmlnatlon
of tarlffs on chemlcals and related products 1n v.5. /Canadlan
trade, on the condltlon that the Canadlan government ellmlnate
preferentlal Canadlan chemlcal feedstock and energy pollcles and
restrlctlons on forelgn 1nvestment 1n chemlcals.
Incldentally, on Frlday, I learned that the Board of Dlrectors of
the Canadlan Chemlcal Producer" Assoclatlon (CCPA7 approved a
posltlon on v.5. /Canadlan tarlff negotlatlons that 15 Similar to
CMA'S posltlon W that tarlffs on all chemlcals should be on the
table for negotlatlon, not just certaln chemlcal subsectors or
groups of products such as CCPA'S orlglnal 115: of 2a.
A copy of
CCPA'S posltlon 15 on 1:: way to us.
In January, the Board approved 3 cm posltlon supportlng
publlcatlon and luvplementatlon of the draft Whlte House pollcy on
the export of hazardous substances.
CMA 039591
Th 7 draft pollcy 15 based on tha prlnclpla of exchanglng
1nfomatlon on regulatory actlvltlas Hlth othar countrlas rath tr
than on dlract controls such as llcanslng of exports or
prashlpmant notlflcatlon to tha fortlgn govarnmant on Each
transactlon (movamant of product).
An ad hoc group conslstlng of cm mambars and raprasantatlvas of
thar trada assoclatlons concarnad mm v.5. pollcy on tha export
of hazardous substancas was sat up and bagan advocatlng adoptlon
of tha draft pollcy 1n maatlngs mm tha Admlnlstratlon.
Durlng tha 2nd quarter. tha Unltad Stats: and Mexlco 51:;an a
trada agraamant 1n whlch Maxlco agraad to allmlnata Export
subsldlas ovar a parlod of time; 1n axehanga for balm; grantad
tha 1njury :55: 1n countarvalllng duty trada ramady actlons
brought 1n tha Unltad Statas.
Tha two govarnmants also announcad thay would bagln work toward a
ganaral framawork agraamant to 1mprova trada batwaan tha two
countrlas.
In rasponsa to thls announcement; tha Intarnatlonal
Trada Commlttaa bagan to davalop a sat of prlnclplas for
bllataral trada batwaan tha Unltad Stats: and Maxlco.
Negotlatlons mm Maxlco Bra not axpactad m rasult 1n 3 fraatrada agraamant 1n tha 1990's; or avan 1n tha 1990's.
Thara Bra
just too many dlffarancas batwaan tha two countrlas for that m
happan.
Throughout tha year; tha Admlnlstratlon contlnuad m promota tha
ldaa of a naw Round of Multllataral Trada Nagotlatlons undar tha
n naral Agraamant on Tarlffs and Trada (GATT) m shora up tha
prasant tradlng systam and m davalop rulas for araas of trada
not prasantly covarad by GATT.
By yaar and/ howavar" flnal agraamant on whan tha nagotlatlons
should bagln and on what thay should covar< had not yat baan
raachad.
Tha chamlcal 1ndustry has an 1mportant staka 1n 3 naw Round of
Multllataral Trada Nagotlatlons slnca chamlcal tarlffs Bra 5:111
mgn Enough to hava a Significant affact on prlcas 1n both v. s.
and Export markats.
In praparatlon for tha naw Round; tha Trada Commlttaa davalopad a
proposad cm posltlon basad on a statamant of prlnclplas whlch
addrass v.5. negotlatlng policy; dlsputa sattlamant procedures
and trada lssues of partlcular 1mportance to tha chamlcal
1ndustry.
These lssues 1nclude forelgn market access; tariffs; tha
establlshment of a coda on forelgn investment; and unprovement 1n
th
protectlon afforded 1ntellectual property rlghts.
Approval
for tha proposad posltlon Will be sought from tha Board tomorrow.
CMA 039592
1999 was also a year of much Congresslonal debate on trada< but
no Significant trade leglslatlon was anactad.
Congressman
1ntroduced a large number of trada mus 1n frustratlon over the
growlng trada deficit and out of concern that the Admlnlstratlon
lacks a comprehenslve pollcy to deal Hlth trade problems.
However. the number and complexlty of the trad“ mus proposed,
the lack of strong central Congresslonal leadershlp on
1nternatlonal trade and the House Ways and Means Commlttee's
preoccupatlon Hlth tax recom prevented passage of broad scope
trade leglslatlon durlng the year.
Posslbly 1n response to the Congresslonal actlvlty on trade, 1n
September. Presldent Reagan announced a new 20 polnt Trade Pollcy
Actlon Plan to pursue v.5. rlghts and 1nterests 1n 1nternatlonal
commerce.
Under the Actlon Plan. a Strlke Force was establlshed m 1n1tlate
or accelerate trade remedy proceedlngs agalnst unfalr trade
practlces of other countrles.
Several trade remedy proceedlngs
were 1n1tlated by the Admlnlstratlon by year end.
Whlle 1999 was a year of Congresslonal debate on trade and
Admlnlstratlon preparatlon for negotlatlons.
1995 Will See more
actlon.
Congress has stated that 1nternatlonal trade will be the next
major lssue 1: will address. once work on tax pollcy 15 out of
the way.
The House Ways and Means Commlttee 15 plannlng a
weekend retreat early 1n the sesslon to 1n1tlate 1:: work on
trade problems.
What the result will be 15 uncertaln.
As Dexter mentlonefl,
gettlng a smgle omnlbus trade mu out of the many whlch have
been 1ntroduced Will be an achlevement.
However. Congress, will not pass secmpspemfm leglslatlon
restrlctlng unports unless the trade deficit contlnues to grow
unabated and the Strlke Force and other elements of the
Presldent's Trade Actlon Plan are consldered 1neffect1ve.
Rather. any new trade leglslatlon will focus on strengthenlng the
Presldent's authorlty to 1n1tlate actlon agalnst unfalr trade
practlces of forelgn countrles, and will encourage the Presldent
to take such actlon.
New trade leglslatlon may also 1nclude llmltatlons on the
Presldent's dlscretlon 1n grantlng unport rellef 1n "escape
clause" cases once an 1njury finding has been made.
In addltlon,
1: may 1nclude expanded trade adjustment asslstance for workers
and asslstance for communltles whose 1ndustr1es have been m: by
1nternatlonal Competltlon.
Tha Commltt a 15 studylng 1nd1v1dual provlslons of mu: that
mlght hava an unpact on tha chamlcal 1ndustry and Hill davalop
and racommand cm posltlons" as naadadl for Board approval.
Tha Unltad Stats: and othar GATT Signatory countrlas will
probably bagln a naw Round of Multllataral Trada Nagotlatlons
undar GATT.
Dnca tha Board approvas 3 cm posltlon on tha naw
Round“ tha Trada Commlttaa and tha Govarnmant Ralatlons Commlttaa
will plan a comblnad actor: to promota tha cm posltlon to both
tha Admlnlstratlon and tha Congrass.
Th
Unltad Stats: and Canada will bagln fomal nagotlatlons
toward a fraaitrada araa agraamant batwaan tha two countrlas.
Tha Intarnatlonal Trada Commlttaa has bagun and Hill contlnua to
advocata CMA'S posltlon durlng tha nagotlatlons.
Tha Commlttaa Hill complata 1:: work on prlnclplas for bllataral
trada nagotlatlons batwaan tha Unltad Stats: and Maxlco" and Hill
r command 3 cm posltlon for approval by tha Board.
Th
Commlttaa Will also axamlna proposals for bllataral trada
from tha Assoclatlon of Southaast Aslan Natlons" tha Gulf
c oparatlon Councll and othar davaloplng natlons and alllancas
that may saak fraaitrada agraamants mm tha Unltad Statas.
Tha ad hoc group concarnad mm v.5. pollcy on tha Export of
hazardous substancas Hill contlnua to prass tha Admlnlstratlon m
ralaasa and luvplamant 1:: draft pollcy whlch has baan dormant at
tha Whlta Housa for tha past 371/2 yaars.
Tha group's goal will
ha to pravant onarous Export rastrlctlons and dlract controls.
In praparatlon for thasa actlvltlas" tha Commlttaa has dacldad m
raorganlza 1:: Task Groups.
Tha Export of Hazardous Substancas
Task Group has baan dlsbandad bacausa tha bulk of 1:: work has
baan complatad.
Tha rast Hill ha carrlad out by tha ad hoc
group.
Th
Intargovarnmantal Drganlzatlons Task Group has also baan
dlsbanda'd.
Instaad" tha Commlttaa as a whola mm on an as
naadad basls" addrass lssuas pravlously handlad by thls Task
Group.
In addltlon" tha Import Pollcy Task Group and Export Pollcy Task
Group will ha comblnad.
Tha naad for a naw Task Group to daal
axcluslvaly Hlth tha upcomlng Multllataral Trada Nagotlatlons has
baan ldantlflad.
Latar" a saparata task group or ad hoc group to
daal Hlth tha v. 5. /Canada bllataral fraaitrada nagotlatlons may
ha naadad.
Tha Invastmant Task Group will ha ratalnad to work on 1nvastmant
lssuas arising out of nagotlatlons on althar bllataral talks or
tha Multllataral Trada Nagotlatlons.
CMA 039594
Flnally, as Dtxtar mantlonad aarllar, tha Commlttaa naads your
support.
W3 naad to know how you 5551 about tha lssuas< whathar
or not your company 15 raprasantad on tha,Trada Commlttaa or ana
of 1:: Task Groups.
W3 ballava that 1ntarnatlonal trada 15 bacomlng an 1ncraaslngly
1mportant compatltlva factor for many sagmants of tha v.5.
chamlcal 1ndustry and that trada pollcy should rank high on tha
1ndustry '5 aganda.
AJS/lfw
4cm 039595
EXHIBIT c
Remarks :9 CMA'S Board of Dlrectors
Chalman, Health and Safety Commlttee
January 27, 1995
I am pleased to present to you today tha flrst annual report of the
Health and Safety Commlttee.
Th1: Commlttee was conned by Board actlon In January 1995 to
provlde the Assoclatlon a central focus for overslght and coordlnatlon
of health and safety pollcy and programs. mm publlc health and safety
concerns bemg the central drlvlng force behlnd most recent envlroni
mental and chemlcal control laws and regulatlons, the Health and Safety
Commlttee gives cm the ability to orchestrate a conslstently coordlnati
ed advocacy program for publlc health and safety pollcy. The Commlti
tee's overslght of health and safety pollcy facllltates the Integratlon
of these Issues Into programs and pollcy developments of the other
commlttees, resultlng 1n a closer worklng relatlonshlp mm the Envlroni
mental Management, Communlcatlons, Englneerlng Advlsory, Dlstrlbutlon,
and State Affalrs Commlttees and the Blamedlcal and Envlronmental
Speclal Programs.
The Commlttee replaced two standlng Commlttees 7 the Chemlcal
Regulatlons Advlsory Commlttee mum and the Dccupatlonal Safety and
Health Commlttee (0537; two Executlve Commlttee Task Groups 7 the Publlc
Compensatlon Task Group and the UM? Work Group; and reduced the number
of task groups from 35 m 15. Th1: consolldatlon was accompllshed
wlthout dlsruptlon of any ongolng actlvltles or Significant loss of
relatlonshlps Hlth outslde groups. Th1: has allowed us to address the
presslng Issues Hlth fever task groups and fever people, reduclng the
number of member company representatlves Involved, requlrlng less travel
and fewer meetlngs.
The restructurlng of the Industry and of many CMA member companles
has presented unlque challenges In that several of the key Task Group
members. and some of the Commlttee members have had Significant job
changes, resultlng 1n some people turnover and changes 1n leadershlp.
Unllke the predecessor commlttees or task groups, the current Task
Groups no longer have agencyispeclflc responslblllty but have functlonal
responslblllty based upon the expertlse needed by the group to carry out
1:: mlsslon. The functlonal unlts are rlsk analysls, rlsk management,
rlsk communlcatlons, compensatlon, and external affalrs and are shown
schematlcally on page 31 of the report.
The Commlttee has a major goals that were developed at a plannlng
meetlng shortly after the Commlttee was conned. We can pick and choose
CMA 039595
2
and approprlate Task Force expertlse and resources needed to achleve
successful completlon of each goal.
Th1: creates a true matrlx organlzatlon and allows us to focus
resources on an Issue wlthout redundancy and needless waste of tune for
company or staff personnel.
The Commlttee and most of 1:: Task Groups have kept busy all of
1995 because of the dlverslty and complexlty of the Issues for whlch the
Commlttee Is responslble, the reorganlzatlon necessary to consolldate
the ongolng actlvltles wlthout loss of momentum, and the constant demand
for actlon and reactlon as a result of the several chemlcal releases
whlch have occurred at Bhopal, Instltute, and elsewhere. We Inltlated
new programs to unprove the publlc's perceptlon of the chemlcal Industry
as belng responslble. We also have had some less Visible but equally
necessary programs whlch are more baslc and behlnd the scenes. These
actlvltles usually Involve generally worklng Hlth leglslatlve or regu7
latory contacts on lssues Vital to the 1ndustry.
The remalnlng time that I have today will be spent dlscusslng some
examples of programs, followed by a brlef revlew of areas whlch the
Commlttee antlclpates Hill requlre prlorlty attentlon 1n the future.
Followlng the Bhopal catastrophe, a speclal task group, chalred by
Hamllton Hurst and reportlng m the Executlve Commlttee, developed the
two new chemlcal Industry programs 7 Program and the Natlonal Chemlcal
Response and Infomatlon Center (or Nancy.
The CAER Program was asslgned to the Health and Safety Commlttee
for Implementatlon and followup. 1: has been well recelved and contlni
us: to generate favorable reactlon from the medla and regulators.
Industry receptlon has also been good. av“ 17m companles have Signed
up to partlclpate In the CAER Program and have named an executlve as the
company's CARR coordlnator. The CARR coordlnator Is a crltlcal llnk
between the company's facilities managers and the Program.
The CAER Task Group has held a serles of reglonal workshops at
whlch the Program has been descrlbed to more than 1,700 chemlcal Indus*
try managers, and over 1,100 sltes have been selected to begln the
process for Implementlng CAER. In addltlon, communlty coordlnatlng
groups, whlch usually Include emergency response offlclals, elected
offlclals. and representatlves of Industry and the publlc, have been
Inltlated, CAER handbooks have been dlstrlbuted 1n the u.s., and other
communlcatlons materlals, Includlng sllde/tape shows, Videotapes, and
brochures. have recelved Hide dlstrlbutlon to facllltles managers,
emergency response groups, and pollce and flre flghters. A monthly CAER
newsletter Is prepared and dlstrlbuted by the Task Group.
CAER has created a consnunlcatlons network for cm and member
companles to local emergency response groups and to the EPA, Federal
Emergency Management Agency 117mm, other federal agencles, and Hlth
other trade assoclatlons.
CMA 039597
3
CAER has helped to promlnently portray the 1ndustry as bemg
concerned mm publlc health and safety and has given us the unlque
opportunlty to bulld publlc Credlblllty. We are contlnulng our efforts
to capltallze upon thls 1n1tlatlve. Although CARR has been hlghly
successful 1n showlng posltlve actlons that 1ndustry 15 taklng, we have
some concerns of whlch you should be aware and that do requlre atteni
tlon. of the 172 companles that have Signed up for the CAER Program, an
have not submltted Either of the 2 mllestone reports whlch are now past
due. Th1: creates concern that we may not be able to malntaln the
credlblllty of the Program. We need your help, through contacts you may
have 1n other companles, m contlnue to emphaslze the unportance of the
CAER initiative to the current and future credlblllty of the 1ndustry.
Turnlng now to the less Visible programs the Commlttee and 1:: Task
Groups have conducted. These actlvltles are more numerous than the
upifront, actlve, Visible programs, such as CAER, and have been equally
as effectlve 1n supportlng CMA'S advocacy posltlons.
In response to publlc leglslatlve demands followlng Bhopal, the
Dccupatlonal Safety and Health Admlnlstratlon 1053A) developed thelr
Speclal Emphasls Program, deslgned to target chemlcal plants for Eddy
tlonal safety and health 1nspectlons, 1rrespect1ve of plant safety
performance. These 1nspectlons, were 1n1tlally deslgned by OSHA to be
hlghly technlcal, 1nidepth process hazards revlews, rather than routlne
OSHA 1n5pectlons. By worklng mm the Agency, representatlves of the
Commlttee were able to help OSHA recognlze 1:: lack of expertlse to
carry out such a program and then asslsted 1n redraftlng the program to
be one that only serves DSHA'S purposes but 15 conslstent Hlth our
companles' process safety management revlews.
Also 1n the occupatlonal safety and health arena, our Commlttee
became aware that a representatlve of the Internatlonal Textlle Workers
Unlon had chalred a commlttee whlch had completely rewrltten the Bureau
of Labor Statlstlcs Reportlng Guldellnes for Dccupatlonal Illness and
Injury (BLS 4127. Th1: document. whlch contalned Very onerous prof
Vlslons for all of 1ndustry, some of whlch are detalled at the top of
page 19 1n your book, had already been approved by the Department of
Labor and submltted to the Offlce of Management and Budget (may for
approval to Implement. By contactlng ms, we were able to get the
document recalled by the Department of Labor and then rewrltten to
present more balanced guldance on reportlng occupatlonal lllness and
injuries. Th1: has been followed mm extenslve contacts mm BLS,
Includmg taklng the Commlssloner and member of her staff to tour plants
1n our 1ndustry.
Representatlves of the Commlttee have also been Very actlve Hlth
ERA 1n the Toxlc Substances Control ACt (TSCA7 area and have addressed
many of the concerns that surfaced durlng congresslonal hearlngs regardi
mg assessment and management of chemlcals.
A dlalogue group, under the umbrella of the Conservatlon Founda*
tion,’ came to agreement on mechanlsms for EPA management of new enemy
c515 after Premanufacturlng Notlflcatlon 11mm. Th1: lssue 15 a TSCA
deflclency that was hlghllghted durlng congresslonal testlmony.
CMA masses
4
Representatlves of the TSCA Reauthorlzatlon Task Group provlded the
leadershlp m brlng the 1ndustry, publlc Interest representatlves, and
state members of the dlalogue group to closure on the Program. The
Program, now called "New Chemlcal Followivp," has been recommended to
EPA for actlon. The Agency has 1nd1cated a wllllngness m 1n1tlate
rulemaklng m codlfy the Program, thus defuslng thls concern 1n future
congresslonal actlvltles.
Another concern durlng congresslonal dlscusslons of TSCA was
negotlated testlng. The Natural Resources Defense Councll (mum), cm,
and EPA worked collectlvely to develop a procedure for negotlatlng test
agreements and developmg test rules under Sectlon 4. The new procedure
was developed under the prlnclple that test rules and negotlated testlng
agreements should be equlvalent and consent Orders under TSCA Sectlon 4
would be the prlmary mechanlsm m satlsfy that prlnclple. The Consent
Orders. as the test rules. would Include requlrements to ensure adequate
and rellable data, would be enforceable, and would conform to other TSCA
regulatory requlrements. In addltlon, the new procedures would Include
an opportunlty for publlc partlclpatlng and an expedlted schedule for
negotlatlng and rulemaklng. After flnal agreement by the 2 Involved
partles, EPA will lssue the procedures as an interim flnal rule 1n
February or March 1935. The result of thls successful effort has been
to lower publlc pressure to amend TSCA, precludlng what could be more
onerous testlng procedures and tlmetables. 1: has also 1mproved worklng
relatlonshlps among the 3 partles 1nvolved In the negotlatlons.
The Commlttee has also. through the Publlc Compensatlon Task Group,
asslsted Government Relatlons In recommendlng and supportlng Varlous
Inltlatlves 1n the Superfund reauthorlzatlon process. These have
Included recommendlng publlc health survelllance as an Integral compo*
nent of Superfund, asslstlng 1n preparlng lobbylng packages opposlng
Victimsf Compensatlon proposals as these were Introduced or dlscussed,
and communlcatlng the results of the mum? study of posslble health
effects from hazardous waste sltes. The Superfund mus before Congress
have no Vlctlms' demonstratlon programs, no federal cause of actlon, and
much better health studles provlslons as a result.
Prlorlty Issues whlch are antlclpated m requlre Significant
attentlon 1n the future are the followlng:
o
The Dccupatlonal Safety and Health Admlnlstratlon 1053A) has been
relatlvely inactive 1n standards development for the last 4 years.
Few standards have been developed and those that have been devel*
oped have responded to court mandates or 1ntense leglslatlve
pressure. Industry has not had to comply Hlth the new regulatlons,
but we have mlssed opportunltles to 35515: 1n the development of
standards whlch address workplace needs 1n 3 costieffectlve way.
OSHA Will not be able to contlnue bemg unresponslve to 1:5 leglsi
latlve mandate. nor Is 1: 1n Industry's best Interest to contlnue
to miss Significant opportunltles to assure costieffectlve, pasty
cal workplace standards.
Through 1:5 Natlonal Emphasls Program, OSHA has served notlce
that our 1ndustry, 1rrespect1ve of our excellent safety record,
CMA 039599
5
Will be more carefully scrutlnlzed for workplace safety and health.
We can antlelpate that, 1n addltlon t 1ncreased standards*sett1ng,
chemlcal plants will be 1nspected more frequently by OSHA. The
Health and Safety Commlttee 15 prepared to 55515: OSHA where 1: 15
needed and approprlate, 1nclud1ng conslderlng the development of
some forwardilooklng programs to contlnue m unprove the 1ndustry's
lmage.
o
In the Toxlc Substances Control ACt (TSCA7 area, blotechnology
regulatlon 15 relatlvely qulet now but Will llkely become more
actlve 1n the future. Although 1: may become a hlgh Visibility
iSSuE, we want to keep 1: separate from other TSCA Issues. We Will
contlnue to monltor work closely mm other trade assoclatlons and
develop posltlons as approprlate.
Reauthorlzatlon of TSCA has been given a lower prlorlty by
Congress for the last year, largely because thelr calendar was so
full of other healthirelated actlvltles. Th1: Will not last,
however. We Will contlnue to address the identified concerns and
stand ready to become a player 1n the debate as soon as 1: 15
rejolned.
A Natlonal Research Councll (may report stated that the
toxlclty data that are avaliable on chemlcals 1n commerce are both
Very llmlted and Inadequate. Many people are now usmg thls report
to show a supposed need for mandatory testlng and a minimal test
set. Unfortunately, no readlly avaliable body of data exlsts to
give a better understandlng than 1: given by the mm report. The
Commlttee Will be evaluatlng the accuracy of the report and what
can be done to Improve the data base and refute the report. Th1:
1: probably a longer tam project, however, and not one that lends
1tself to relatlvely early resolutlon.
o
Leglslatlve actlvltles Hill contlnDE, especlally In the area of the
chemlcal Industry's effect on the health of the publlc and our work
force. Dccupatlonal lllness had drawn several congresslonal mus
recently and the proponents of such measures have not been success*
m1 yet. The Commlttee Is already actlvely partlclpatlng 1n thls
debate and Hill contlnue 1n order to prevent our Industry's operai
tlons and products from belng unfalrly smgled out for leglslatlve
treatment.
Publlc compensatlon actlvltles Hill contlnue, especlally 1n
the area of product llablllty, where we are worklng mm the CMA
General Counsel's osnce, and the Government Relatlons staff to
address Senator Danforth's mm. The Superfund reauthorlzatlon
battle Will be rejolned soon and health effects from hazardous
waste sltes Hill contlnue to be one of the emotlonal leaders 1n
thls struggle. The Publlc Compensatlon Task Group will contlnue to
play an 1mportant role In thls area.
The lssue of health effects from emlsslons from operatlng
facllltles Will Come more to the fore. The Envlronmental Manage*
ment CommlttEE, asslsted by the Health and Safety Commlttee, has
CMA 039590
5
been developmg a posltlon on thls. Congress and the regulatory
agencles x1111 contlnue" however“ to use publlc health as the
drlvlng force for more leglslatlon and regulatlon addressed at the
chemlcal Industry. The Health and Safety Commlttee Hill contlnue
to develop health pollcy for the Assoclatlon and to 35515: other
commlttees and departments to respond :9 Issues 1n the publlc
health arena.
The Health and Safety Commlttee has been concelved, born, and
nurtured durlng a Very trylng time for the chemlcal Industry. We
belleve He he successfully negotlated thls traumatlc blrthlng wlthout
loslng any momentum, mm our goals constantly In front of us and our
eyes on them.
5
One of the hallmarks of the Commlttee's actlvltles has been to try
to address Issue In there entlrety by golng m the heart of the problem
and looklng at how leglslators and regulators declde to take actlon.
vsmg thls assessment, we have addressed the Issues 1n depth and pro*
posed longitem flxes, not just treated the obvlous symptoms and provldi
ed a cosmetlc cure and left the roots of the lssue unattended. The
Commlttee Intends to contlnue thls approach to the health and safety
lssues whlch Will be affectlng the chemlcal Industry In the near and
dlstant future.
1
I Will be glad to answer any questlons you may have.
1
s
1
1
1
CMA 039591
EXHIBIT u
upon 017 THE
CHEMICAL INDUSTRY covucm OF NEW mum
Request for Indlvldual Company Support and Actlon
Dbjectlve
To 1ncrease the effectlveness of the Chemlcal Industry Councll of
New Jersey 1n representlng the chemlcal 1ndustry 1n New Jersey.
Background
Chemlcal 1ndustry Presence 1n New Jersey
0
Approxlmately 95,000 workers are employed by New Jersey's
chemlcal 1ndustry (largest chemlcal workforce 1n namony
0
New Jersey's chemlcal 1ndustry 15 the largest manufacturlng
1ndustry 1n the state
0
New Jersey companles manufacture chemlcal products Valued
at 514.2 bllllon per year (second 1n namony
0
New Jersey's 1ndustry produces about 12.50% of the natlon's
chemlcal output
I
am Drganlsatlon and Programs
CIC/NJ 15 comprlsed of 97 member companles (See Attachment 17 from
the chemlcal. phamaceutlcal and allled products 1ndustr1es. The
Councll employs two professlonal and two support staff and has a
budget of approxlmately $250,000.
Polltlcal Cllmate
The New Jersey leglslature 15 recognlzed as one of the most actlve
1n the country and 15 consldered antklndustry 1n the envlronmental
and health and safety areas. The state has been a "leader" on such
leglslatlve lssues as: State Superfund (1nclud1ng fundlng and
llablllty standards), worker and communlty rlght to know, the Toxlc
Catastrophe Preventlon Act, and Envlronmental Cleanup
Responslblllty Act (ECRA).
Followivp To September State Chemlcal Drganlzatlons Report
At the September CMA Board of Dlrectors meetlng, a speclal report
on the status and programs of the Varlous state chemlcal
organlzatlons was presented by Mr. 3111 Wood of Dupont, who
chalred a speclal ad hoc work group establlshed to conduct thls
CMA 039592
report. The report gave an overvlew of the status and programs of
the 13 CIC's and made some generlc recommendatlons for CMA and
member company actlons m 1mprove the effectlveness of all (:1:
programs gener.lly. Although reactlon m the report was favorable,
several of the Assoclatlon's Offlcers and Dlrectors requested that
more speclflc equests for actlon be made to the Board mm respect
to 1nd1v1dual 1c programs where there are partlcular problems
and/or needs. t the October Annual Meetlng all of the state
chemlcal organ zatlons, thelr leaders were asked to 1dentlfy those
areas where thy belleved CMA'S Dlrectors could unlquely 35515:
thelr program. The CIC/NJ 15 the flrst to respond.
Recommendatlon
The leadershlp of the cm/m, actlng pursuant to the opportunlty made
avaliable as a result of the September am Board meetlng, suggests that
the followlng .ctlons be taken by 1nd1v1dual companles at the dlrectlon
of members of he am Board.
1: 15 the bellf of the CIC/NJ leadershlp
that posltlve .ctlon on these recommendatlons will result 1n
slgnlflcantly ncreased effectlveness on the part of the cm/m. 1: 15
also thelr belef that threat actlon by members of CMA'S Board and
other cm Exec tlve Contacts are essentlal to accompllsh these actlons.
Company Partlcpatlon
I
1. That nomlne-s from cm member companles to the CIC/NJ'S
Board and Exec tlve Advlsory Commlttee represent the most
senlor 1nd1v1 315 posslble from New Jersey operatlons.
1
2. That cm me her companles support, through organlzatlonal
membershlp an actlve Commlttee partlclpatlon, the CIC/NJ'S
programs.
Increased mm c Relatlons/Communlcatlons Asslstance
c:
In order m 1 lament the communlcatlons program recently
developed by t e CIC/NJ Publlc Relatlons Commlttee, that the
CMA Dlrectors 1th New Jersey operatlons provlde company
publlc relatl- s professlonals to concentrate on
communlcatlon support for such leglslatlve lssues as alr
toxlcs and Ha e slte cleanup.
Avallablllty .5 Company Technlcal Experts
That the Boar of Dlrectors be willing to make avaliable, on
an 55*needed .5515, natlonally recognlzed company technlcal
experts 1n th.follow1ng areas to 35515: 1n leglslatlve and
1
CMA 039593
regulatory ad ocacy. Th1: would augment the excellent work
bemg done by ‘ any faclllty based technlcal personnel.
rlsk assessme t and management
process safe:
air toxlcs
groundwater
cleanup stand.rds
pestleldes reulatlons
Surplus Offlc- Equlpment
That companle- donate the followlng surplus (or new offlce
equlpment:
1
postage machl e and mallers
addressograph
letteriquallt prlnter compatlble mm Digital Computers
511: cablnets bookcases
VldeO recordl g and camera equlpment
surplus desk .nd conference chalrs
Personal CED/‘enlor Executlve Commltment
That members .5 the Board of Dlrectors' mm facllltles or
corporate heaquarters 1n New Jersey commlt to appear at
CIC/NJ press onferences, dellver speeches, partlclpate 1n
medla tours, r attend edltorlal board Visits mm major
newspapers on the followlng chemlcal 1ndustry lssues 1n
support of th- cm advocacy program:
abandoned wase slte cleanup fundlng
air toxlcs
groundwater
CAER program HMACS
To further ch-mlcal 1ndustry success on key lssues, 1: 15 also
requested tha CEDs/Senlor Executlves 1n New Jersey host
prlvate meetlgs at company facllltles Hlth Varlous state
leglslators.
Actlon Requlrd
Board endorse ent of the thrust of the recommendatlons and subsequent
indications o 1nd1v1dual company actlons m achleve them.
CMA
CMA 039594
EXHIBIT E
Remarks to cm '5 Board of Dlrectors
By Willlam M. Bellamy, Jr.
Chalman, Tax Pollcy commlttee
January 27, 186
In 1935, Che ax Pollcy Commlttee was Very deeply 1nvolved 1n
key leglslatl e lssues affectlng the chemlcal 1ndustry.
Respondlng
co the numero 5 problems ralsed 1n both tax recom and Superfund
reauthorlzatl-n leglslatlon, the Commlttee effectlvely handled a Wide
range of tax ssues that could Increase 1ndustry tax costs by more
Chan 55 mulm annually.
Slnce Novembe , 1934, the Tax Pollcy Commlttee has focused on
she major tax revlslon lssues that are of contlnulng concern to the
chemlcal Indutry.
These Issues ere flrst ralsed 1n the context of
she Treasury Iepartment's 1994 Tax Reform Proposals and later In the
preparatlon o CMA'S testlmony on Presldent Reagan's May 29 tax
recom progra before the House Commlttee on Ways and Means.
In general, p esldent Reagan's 1995 tax recom program would
shlft almost .140 bllllon of the Federal Income tax burdens now borne
by 1nd1v1dual m the busmess sector.
The Presldent's program would
substantlally 1ncrease the tax burdens of busmesses chat are capltal
1ntenslve and that engage 1n Significant 1nternatlonal trade.
The speclflc Issues ralsed 1n the Presldent's program are set
out 1n detall at Tab 5 of our Commlttee report.
For thls reas-n I
Will not repe.t that dlscusslon except to relterate why federal tax
lssues are so vltally unportant m the chemlcal Industry.
First, let me emphaslze that for many years the chemlcal
1ndustry has -njoyed one of the most favorable tax posltlons among
v.5. 1ndustr1.l sectors.
Both reasons}: a capltal cost recovery
perlods and t e Investment tax Credlt have been avaliable for
chemlcal manufacturlng Investments for a number of years.
To some
extent: the . 1nc1pal achlevement of the Accelerated Cost Recovery
System (ACRSV, adopted as part of Presldent Reagan's 1991 tax
program, was 0 provlde other 1ndustr1es Hlth tax depreclatlon
comparable :- chat whlch the chemlcal 1ndustry enjoyed.
Beyond 1:: c. arable depreclatlon posltlon, the chemlcal
1ndustry 15 nlque among capltal 1ntenslve 1ndustr1es 1n Che extent
to whlch 1: an utilize the 1nvestment tax credlts generated.
In
1935, the ch.1cal 1ndustry 1nvested more Chan 314 bllllon In new
plant and er; 1pment, almost an percent of chose expendltures
quallfled to she Investment tax Credlt.
In current d-llars, the
1nvestment t.x credlt reduces the annual tax mm of the v.5.
chemlcal 1nd stry by over $1 bllllon.
Moreover. th.chem1cal 1ndustry 15 far more dependent on
1nternatlona trade than many other capltal 1ntenslve 1ndustr1es.
For example, 1n 1995 she Unlted States exported chemlcals and allled
products m: a value of $22.2 bllllon and 1n chat year unported
$14.5 b11110 .
mm a combl ed total of approxlmately $37 bllllon 1n
CMA 039595
Ic 15 clear -hat CMA has a strong, Vital 1nterest 1n tax recom
leglslatlon -hat reflects a unlquely chemlcal 1ndustry concern.
We
are organlze under a comprehenslve work, plan to defend the
1ndustry's 1 terests 1n taxatlon.
We are workl g cooperatlvely to
1mplement uh: plan on Capltol 3111.
We look formrd to posltlve
achlevements 1n the Senate and 1n any tax leglslatlon that may be
enacted thls year.
In closmg, at me relterate what I told you at thls tune last
year.
The Tax Polly Commlttee and 1:: members have worked hard thls
year; the me bars of the Commlttee are true tax professlonals who
have devoted a substantlal amount of time and effort to achlevlng the
objectlves o the Commlttee.
Agaln. I am roud to have served as
Chalman.
Whlle relatl ely unheralded, CMA'S achlevements 1n
taxatlon, boh leglslatlve and regulatory, are unsurpassed 1n thelr
contrlbutlon m the wellibelng of our Industry.
We expect
to contlnue his
record of poltlve achlevement
1n
CMA 039597
EXHIBIT F
TAX REFORM VDCACY
Background:
The House of Representatlves narrowly passed 3.x. 3939, the Ways and
Means Commlt as tax revlslon leglslatlon, after Presldent Reagan
personally 1 tervened 1n the Congresslonal debate. lee Presldent
Reagan's May 29 tax program, 3.x. 3939 would provlde a masslve shlft
of Federal 1 some tax burdens now borne by 1nd1v1duals m busmess
taxpayers, w thln the busmess sector, 3.x. 3939 would substantlally
1ncrease the tax burden of busmesses that are capltal 1ntenslve and
that engage n Significant 1nternatlonal trade. 1: 15 conservatlvely
estlmated th-t the overall unpact of 3.x. 3939 as passed by the House
would cost t e chemlcal 1ndustry more than $3 bllllon annually.
CMA Program Ievelopment and .Response:
Slnce Novembr. 1934, the Tax Pollcy Commlttee has focused on the
ma)or tax re lslon lssues that are of contlnulng concern to the
chemlcal 1nd stry. These lssues were flrst ralsed 1n the context of
th Treasury Iepartment's 1994 Tax Refom Proposals and later 1n
preparatlon .5 CMA...5 testlmony before the House Commlttee on Ways and
Means. In Edition, the Commlttee prepared several onsipage speclflc
leglslatlve ssue analyses whlch the Taxatlon Task Group of the
Government R-latlons Comlttee has used extenslvely 1n our meetlngs
mm Congreslonal members and staff.
CMA commlssl-ned Price Waterhouse to conduct a study of effectlve tax
> rates 1n t e chemlcal 1ndustry. The Price Waterhouse study of IS
companles w . are prlmarlly engaged 1n chemlcal manufacturlng shows
that these unpanles paid an effectlve tax rate of over 23 percent 1n
1933, one of the hlghest effectlve tax rates paid by any 1ndustry
group 1n th. year. The Price Waterhouse study has been dlstrlbuted
wldely and 1 belng used by CMA 1n 1:: lobbylng efforts on both tax
recom and s perfund. The response to the Price Waterhouse study has
been vary 5. arable.
In addltlon. CMA provlded a grant to the Instltute for Research 1n the
Economlcs o- Taxatlon many for a study on the unpact of selected tax
recom prop- 315 on capltal fomatlon 1n the chemlcal 1ndustry. These
provlslons clude the repeal of the 1nvestment tax Credlt, reductlon
of deprecla lon beneflts, recapture of accelerated depreclatlon, and
1ncreased a ernatlve minimum tax. In 1:: brlef summary, the Inn
study concl des that;
"Major prov slons 1n the Presldent's tax reform proposals
and 1n the lax recom optlons under conslderatlon by the
CMA 039599
Commlttee o Hays and Means would have devastatlng effects
on the v.5. chemlcal manufacturlng 1ndustry. Partlcularly
damaglng Ho ld be the proposed changes 1n depreclatlon rules
along Hlth me proposed "excess depreclatlon recapture" and
the alterna-lve minimum taxes. Desplte the proposed
reductlons n statutory tax rates, these changes would ralse
the effectl a tax rates to whlch chemlcal manufacturlng
companles ae exposed and would, as a result, materlally
slow the grwth 1n the 1ndustry's productlon facllltles and
employment. cost the 1ndustry's employees bllllons of
dollars 1n 0:: real wages, and reduce the 1ndustry...s output
substantlal y below levels that would otherwlse prevall.
The competllve posltlon of v.5. chemlcal manufacturers 1n
both domes: c and forelgn markets would be slgnlflcantly
eroded."
on January 2‘, the Senate Flnance Commlttee announced that 1: will hold
hearlngs on tax reform beglnnlng January 29 emphaslzlng the
consequence of 3.x. 3939 for 1nternatlonal trade of v.5.
manufacture s.
In these he.r1ngs, CMA 15 requestlng the opportunlty
m testlfy.
The Tax Pol Cy Commlttee and the Government Relatlons Commlttee's
Taxatlon Tak Group have developed a comprehenslve leglslatlve
strategy an work plan on tax recom leglslatlon. The Taxatlon Task
Group has hld regular meetlngs m luvplement thls work plan, to share
1ntelllgenc on tax leglslatlon, and to coordlnate CMA actlvltles Hlth
allled trad assoclatlons. am has now been jolned by other major
trade assoc atlons 1n the opposltlon to key tax revlslon proposals 1n
3.x. 3939 a fectlng capltal fomatlon and 1nternatlonal actlvltles.
He antlclpa e that there Will be much greater concern 1n the Senate
over the ta unpact on those pollcles than was shown 1n the House.
ACTION REQU RED;
For Informs lon Only
CMA
CMA 039599
4
Attachment
199571995
TAX LEGISLA mu WORK PLAN
PROGRAM ELE INTS:
JANUARY 13, 1995
1
1. pomcy R vmw AND ISSUE EVALUATION
A. Revlew 0 Treasury I Refom Plan (completed May 19357
J
B. Analysls of Treasury II Tax Reform Proposals
1. Analysls (completed July 31, 19357
2. cm Stat-ment on Tax Refom for House Ways and
Means (comp eted July 30, 19357
c. Revlew .5 3.x. 3939, Bonsaipassed Tax Revlslon Leglslatlon
1. Analysls (under wayy
2. Revlslo of CMA Statement to Reflect Provlslons of 3.x. 3939
(under wayy
u. Selectl- of Prlorlty Issues by Tax Pollcy Commlttee
unltlally completed August 13, 1935; reassessment 1n llght of
1. cm v15 ts to ranklng members of House Commlttee on Ways and
Means to b- scheduled after completlon of Bonsaisenate
Conference on Superfund Reauthorlzatlon.
2. cm Reg est :9 Testlfy 1n Senate Flnance Commlttee Hearlng on
H. ostmn smums
A. Prlce*W—terhouse Study on Effectlve Tax Rates 1n the Chemlcal
Industry.
1. Complet-d (approved
2. Transml-ted to;
August 13, 19357
Joint Comm ttee on Taxatlon
House Comm ttee on ways and Means
Senate Co ‘ lttee on Flnance
Treasury D-partment (Asslstant Secretary for
Tax pollcyy
3. Artlcle 1n Tax Notes (publlshed August 19, 19957
4. Contlnu-d use 1n Congresslonal Tax and Superfund advocacy
CMA 039500
B. I RET Sludy on Impact on Chemlcal Industry of Proposed Changes
1n Tax Tre.tment of Capltalilntenslve Investments (completed
and approV-d December 1, 19357
111. ADVD cy uocumms
A. 3351c A statement on tax recom dellvered to House ways and
Means (Jul 30, 19357
B. Summary CMA posltlon on tax reform (August 15, 19357
c. Prepara-lon of Separate Advocacy Documents
3. General Statement (completed July 30, 19357
b. Brlef Satements (completed August 23, 19357
c. Modlflc.tlon to reflect House passage of 3.x. 3939
(under way
Speclflc Isues (1n order of pnontyy:
1. Capltal Cost Recovery System 7 Investment Tax Credit
2. Forelgn Tax Credit 7 Per Country leltatlon
3. Minimum Tax (Admlnlstratlon and 3.x. 3939 alternathEV
4. Source ule For Sales
5. Allocat on of Expenses uncludlng Interest)
5. Researc and Development Expenses
7. Sectlon 935 Possesslons Credlt (Puerto R1co7
LEGISLATI commas
A. 1n Gene 31
1. Leglsla 1Ve Contact Teams 7 3 member teams conslstlng of
represents 1Ves from Tax Pollcy Commlttee, GRC Taxatlon
Task Group and cm. (completed, September 13, 19357
2. Inltlal Contacts 7 Contact Teams to focus on results of
Price Wate house effectlve tax rates study, to dellver CMA
advocacy p.pers, to respond to questlons on speclflc
lssues, an to schedule return visits (completed
October 1, 19357
CMA 039501
3. Task G .up Meetlngs 7 Washlngton representatlves of
member so anles hold weekly brleflngs on tax leglslatlon,
1n these -et1ngs cm coordlnates the tax leglslatlve
actlvlty .5 the Washlngton representatlves through
speclflc . slgnments, revlew of leglslatlve 1ntelllgence
and detal -d followithrough.
B. House dvocacy Asslgnments
1. commlt as on Ways and Means
3. cm St.tement on Tax Refom 7 Presented by Dexter F.
Baker. Pr-sldent, Alr Products and Chemlcals. Inc.
b. Meetlns Hlth Professlonal Staff (Contlnulng)
c. Meetlns Hlth Commlttee Staff Leaders (contlnulng)
d. Meetln-s Hlth Indlvldual Members
1. Speclf c Asslgnments for initial contacts (completed
September 13, 19557
11. cm v 51:: m ranklng members of House Commlttee on
ways and sans m be scheduled after completlon of
House*5en.te Conference on Superfund Reauthorlzatlon.
2. Leader-hlp
a. Meetlns Hlth House Democratlc Leadershlp (completed
September 17, 19357
b. Meetlns Hlth House Republlcan Leadershlp (under wayy
a. Senate
1. Senate Flnance Commlttee
3. cm Reuest m Testlfy 1n Hearlngs on 3.x. 3939
(under HBV
b. staff eadershlp monunumgy
a. Tax Prufesslonals (contlnulng)
d. Indlvlwual Senators 7 Speclflc asslgnments of Washlngton
represent tlves (under wayy
2. Senate leadershlp 7 Speclflc asslgnments m be made after
CMA mean-
CMA testlony on 3.x. 3939.
Admlnlstr-tlon Contacts
A. Inltla comments to Treasury by cm Executlve Delegatlon.
Comments rom member company CED'S on unpact of
Treasury I tax plan mm respect to capltal formatlon and
forelgn t.x lssues as requested 1n Executlve letter from
B. Courtey comments to Asslstant Secretary Tax Pollcy
1. Price aterhouse Study
2. mm s udy
a. General reservatlon on opposltlon mall untll after Mousesenate conference on Superfund reauthorlzatlon leglslatlon.
Coordlnaton of Actlvltles Hlth Allled Trade Assoclatlons
1dent1£1c.tlon of allled 1nterest groups (completed September 9,
19357
Speclflc sslgnments of task group members to attend/monltor
allled tr.de group meetlngs (completed, September 13, 19357
Transmltt.l of CMA Tax Pollcy posltlon to allled trade
assoclatl-ns
1. Drlgl .1 statement (September, 19357
2. Revlsed statement to reflect provlslons of 3.x. 3939
(by Febr ary a, 19357
Response to inquiries. More threat actlvltles m be consldered
after Ho saisenate Conference on Superfund Reauthorlzatlon 15
complete.
commas:
St. (:13; Tweedle
Dlrector. Government Relatlons
Amerlcan Cyanamld Company
Chalman, Taxatlon Task Group
(2027 79-1222
William . Bellamy, Jr.
Chlef Ta Counsel
Unlon Cablde Corporatlon
Chalman Tax Pollcy Commlttee
12037 7975214
Robert B 3111
Leglslat Ve Representatlve
for Taxa lon
CMA Stat Executlve
CMA 038m}
EXHIBIT ‘.
TABLE 0F comst
upon 0 THE mmsnmm
Assoclat on Issues and Program Report
Page
ADVOCACY ovmwmw
x
2
3
3
4
ISSUES A u woman STATUS
111.
a
Natlonal Chemlcal Response and Informatloncenter ¢Ncn1cy............ an
Plant M.‘ agement and Deslgn (Englneerlng Codesk Standards)... 35
Interns lonal Regulatory Issues (Health, Safety
DEPARTMD TAL woman moms
53
53
54
55
55
CMA
CMA 039.04
upon IF THE mmsnmm
ASSOCIA mu woman AND ISSUE upon
ADVOCAC ovmwmw
Congres-
The flr-t sesslon of the 99th Congress was an actlve one for both
the Hon e and Senate on economlc iSSuES, but they dld not reauthorlze any
of the.end1ng envlronmental laws.
Congres adopted the Grammikudmaniﬂolllngs b111, a law whlch
requlre a balanced budget by flscal 1991 and requlres Presldentlal
segues: atlon orders across the board on outlays and budget authorlty 1n
order t- achleve 1ntemedlate deflclt targets each year, 15 Congress and
the Preldent do not meet deflclt targets through leglslatlve actlon each
year.
The Bone passed a comprehenslve tax reform mm. The mu reduces
tax rat-s for 1nd1v1duals; 1ncreases the personal exemptlon and the
standar deductlon for 1nd1v1duals; reduces real estate tax shelters;
repeal: the 1nvestment tax credit; reduces Elva corporate brackets to
three a d reduces the top corporate rate from 45 m 35 percent; reduces
the de ctlblllty of busmess entertalnment expenses to en percent of the
current level; establlshes a broadibased 25 percent minimum tax for both
cozpor.tlons and 1nd1v1duals and establlshes less favorable depreclatlon
schedu es.
Two in 1: 1n conference would reauthorlze the Safe Drlnklng Water Act
throng 1939; and authorlze a total of $12 bllllon for sewage constructlon
grants and $9 bllllon for water pollutlon control through m 1990.
131115 assed 1n dlfferlng toms by both the House and Senate and now
awaltl g conference would reauthorlze the Superfund Act. Many
contra erslal lssues remaln m be resolved 1nclud1ng the fundlng level,
fundln mechanlsm and program lssues.
Congre-s passed the Textlle and Apparel Trade Enforcement Act and
sent 1 to the Presldent. 1: was vetoed on December 17, hours before 1:
would ave become law wlthout ms slgnature. The mm was deslgned m
restrlt and regulate textlle 1mports, yet malntaln a level of forelgn
import hlgh enough to allow consumer cholae.
Page
I
CMA mans
The 195 Congresslonal sesslon 15 Very unpredlcatable at thls time
becaus the Grannikudmaniﬂolllngs deflclt reductlon law presents Congress
mm m-ny new challenges. Add to thls the usual uncertalntles of an
electl-n year and 1995 will add up to another difficult year for the
Congres.
Feder.l Regulatory Agencles
Envlr- mental Protectlon Agency (mm. The agency 15 movlng rapldly
m 1 . ement leglslatlon under the Clean Alr Act, the Clean Water Act, the
Toxlc Substances Control ACt, the Safe Drlnklng Water Act (5|:sz and the
Reseach Conservatlon and Recovery Act (RCRA).
Regul.tory actlvltles
under the 5|:sz are especlally Vigorous, and RCRA 1mplementatlon durlng the
next uarter Will be dynamlc.
Food .nd Drug Admlnlstratlon mm. The recent declslon by FDA to
class fy the rlsk of cancer from methylene chlorlde exposure as de mmms
at a 15k of one 1n 3 million 15 a major step away from the 2ero rlsk
concet. The declslon 15 sure to be challenged, but 1: dramatlzes a
growl g awareness among federal agency admlnlstrators that adherlng to
zero 15k, even for carclnogens 1n food, 15 an unacceptable publlc pollcy.
1: 310 adds another case to a growlng set that endorses a llfetlme rlsk
of on 1n 3 million as a future standard.
OSHA peclal Chemlcal 1ndustry Program, on November 4, 1935, OSHA
esta-llshed 3 p119: Natlonal Emphasls Program for programmed inspectlons
of c -m1cal 1ndustry establlshments. The program, whlch reflects
vu: ally all of CMA'S comments of August 29, appears to represent a sound
appr-ach. Durlng the flrst year of the plot program, elghty plant
progams Will be 1nspected by quallfled compllance offlcers who will
exam ne process safety and emergency response procedures.
Dccuatlonal Safety 5 Health Admlnlstratlon 1053A). OSHA 15 also
comp etlng 1:5 1nspectlon check sheet for evaluatlng 1ndustry's worker
educ.tlon and training programs. Th1: program will become effectlve 1n
May 935.
Feds 31 Energy Regulatory Commlsslon (FERC). The Commlsslon has
prop-sed a natural gas block bllllng rule that could cost the chemlcal
1ndutry $500 million a year 15 not modlfled.
v.5. Department of Energy mom. The Secretary of Energy. John
Her lngton, announced that DOE 15 developmg optlons for natural gas
leg slatlon that will serve as the basls for a new Admlnlstratlon mm for
dergulatlon. He 1nd1cated that an Admlnlstratlon mm 15 preferable to
endrslng any of the several gas mus pendlng, and thelr mu should be
reay for Congress 1n January 1935.
Fag
2
CMA means
The am also plans to send Natlonal Energy Pollcy Plan v to Congress
In .nuary. The plans are requlred every two years as updates of federal
enrgy pollcles.
St.tes
Adocacy at any level of government depends on early warnlng, rapid
reponse and early 1nvolvement. Modern technology. 1a. the computer, has
g1 en us the opportunlty to greatly enhance our early partlclpatlon 1n the
p-lltlcal process. CMA State Affalrs Dlvlslon 15 now 1mplement1ng our new
t Diway computer communlcatlon system called CMA/LINC. Currently there
a e 20 member companles and two state chemlcal 1ndustry counclls actlvely
ortlclpatlng.
t should be noted. however. that many of the state CICs Will need
.ddltlonal fundlng for thelr effectlve partlclpa tlon 1n thls Vital
communlcatlons network. Member companles are strongly encouraged to
provlde thls needed support.
The state advocacy program" 1nclud1ng the new CMA/LINC computer
network. will be heavlly 1nvolved 1n 1995 1n the crltlcal envlronmental
lssues 1dent1£1ed by the Natlonal Conference of State Leglslators, namely,
groundwater and the dlsposal of hazardous wastes. of course, other lssues
Hill contlnue m be of major concern such as state Superfund: whlch are
currently under detalled study by the cm State Hazardous
Waste/Groundwater Task Group.
State rlghtitoiknow actlon contlnues to grow and even expand 1n
scope. New Jersey's "Toxlc Catastrophe Preventlon Act", Signed 1n early
January, not only requlres the reportlng of 1nformatlon concernlng
1ndustry's operatlons but also allows the state to order rlsk reductlon
measures or even order the cessatlon of operatlons. Toxlc air will become
even more unportant at the state level as Federal EPA pushes thls lssue
along Hlth groundwater to the states. CMA'S State Affalrs program has
been an actlve partlclpant 1n CMA'S development of an alr toxlcs pollcy.
A new, but rapldly growlng lssue at the state and federal level 15
liability 1nsurance and the related issue of tort reform. CMA'S State
Affalrs program 15 actlvely partlclpatlng 1n 3 large coalltlon of
1nterested trade assoclatlons and 1nd1v1dual companles under the ausplces
of the Amerlcan Leglslatlve Exchange Councll. Nearly all states are
1nvolved 1n some aspect of thls issue. of course, hazardous materlal
transportatlon, publlc compensatlon and chronlc health lssues Hill
contlnue m be actlve lssues as well 1n 1935.
Medla
Page
3
cm 039507
The closmg months of 1995 saw concentrated medla attentlon on the
subject of air toxlcs. The flrst annlversary of Bhopal and related
actlvltles of envlronmental groups, the EPA hazardous chemlcals 115mm;
and. 1n depth medla analysls, made headllnes at the same tune.
Reauthor12atlon of Superfund probably galned more medla attentlon
than expected, prlmarlly because of 1:5 1ntruslon 1nto the budget
reconclllatlon process. Most of thls attentlon was 1n the fom of news
rather than edltorlal coverage.
1995 7 as mlght have been antlclpated followlng the December 1994
Bhopal accldent 7 became a year of 1ntense envlronmental inquiry. Inltlal
1nterest was 1n the potentlal for acute 1nc1dents 1n the Unlted States.
Storles focused on questlons of {allure to regulate or 1nadequacy of
exlstlng law. For the medla, the Instltute, w.v. release answered the
questlon "can 1: happen here?" Attentlon to "acute" threats accelerated 1n
thelr Bhopal retrospectlve. Medla from chemlcal states such as Texas,
Louisiana, west Virginia, Illlnols, Dhlo and Pennsylvanla were concerned
prlmarlly about thls lssue Hlth questlons about training, process
safety and deslgn. New Jersey attentlon 1ncluded "chronlc" lssues as well
as "acute," raising the 1dea of affect on communltles, as opposed to
workers.
For the most part our actlvltles relatlng to Superfund were
proactlve. Bhopal/alr toxlcs actlvltles were responslve.
The natlonal medla appeared to understand the chemlcal 1ndustry
ratlonale for a broad based tax and generally referred to that posltlon 1n
thelr coverage,
1n addltlon. those reporters who have covered the story
over a perlod of time agree mm the 1ndustry contentlon that a waste
generatlon tax bears llttle relatlonshlp to hazardous waste sltes.
Courts and Agency Dealslons
Federal Marltlme Commlsslon. A Vlctory I am, through brlefs and
affldavlts, convlnced an Admlnlstratlve Law Judge to declde that two
chemlcal parcel tankers were "tramps" rather than "ocean conanon carrlers...
and thus exempt from antltrust laws. Whlle thls declslon 15 llkely to be
appealed to the entlre Commlsslon. 1: may serve as a precedent to prevent
chemlcal parcel tankers from obtalnlng antltrust exemptlons for price
settlng and market allocatlon agreements. Those actlvltles could cost the
chemlcal 1ndustry 2mm mllllon dollars per year 1n 1ncreased rates on bulk
chemlcal exports and unports.
Federal Energy Regulatory Commlsslon. Another vlctoryl The Federal
Energy Regulatory Commlsslon (mum has approved a rule on natural gas
Page
4
cm means
transportatlon that adopts many CMA recommendatlons. The rule (Order No.
4357 15 1ntended to promote competltlon 1n the natural gas market by
facllltatlng the movement of gas from the producer to the user. When
fully unplemented by the pipellnes, there Will be a substantlal cost
savlngs to 1ndustrlal users of gas. The annual savlngs for cm members 15
estlmated at 53m to $750 mllllon.
In addltlon. cm and 1:5 Coalltlon partners successfully argued
agalnst 1ncluslon of a new block bllllng mechanlsm 1n the flnal rule. CMA
testlfled that block bllllng would slgnlflcantly ralse the price of
natural gas for 1ndustrlal consumers. A study submltted by cm 1nd1cated
that annual cost to the chemlcal 1ndustry would be approxlmately $550
million. FERC'S actlon 15 a major Vlctory for cm and other 1ndustrlal
users. However. the Commlsslon 15 contlnulng 1:: assessment of the
advantages and dlsadvantages of block bllllng and further actlon 15 5:111
posslble.
11. ISSUES AND woman 5mm:
Hazardous Waste (Superfund)
Congresslonal Developments and Response
Senate Actlvlty
The Senate passed 3.x. 2005 on September 25, the Superfund
reauthorlzatlon for Elva years. The leglslatlon Hill 1ncrease nearly
flvefold the money avaliable to clean up abandoned hazardous waste sltes
by freezlng the feedstock tax and unposlng a broadibased exclse tax on all
manufacturers.
Senator Robert Packwood miom and other members of the Flnance
Commlttee put the Superfund fundlng package 1n the budget reconclllatlon
mu whlch passed the Senate. Senator Jesse Helms ”Ham offered an
amendment to delete the Superfund fundlng from the budget reconclllatlon
leglslatlon. but he lost as m 32. The SenatE, once agaln, strongly
conflmed 1:: support for a broadibased tax and freezlng feedstock to
flnance the Superfund cleanup program.
House Actlvlty
The House Voted 391733 on Dec. 10 m reauthorlze the Superfund
cleanup program by slgnlflcantly 1ncreaslng the tax of chemlcal feedstock:
and 011. The House narrowly defeated the Ways & Means Commlttee's
broadibased tax whlch was opposed by Presldent Reagan, most of the muons,
the envlronmentallsts, and a broad Coalltlon of manufacturers, Hlth thls
Page
5
cm 039509
support, the House passed Representatlves Thomas Downey's (Drum and 13111
Frenzel's mimm amendment. 2207206, to flnance the bulk of the 510.3
bllllon Superfund from a $2 bllllon tax on chemlcal feedstocks, 53.1
bllllon from a crude 011 tax, 52 billion from a waste tax. 51.5 bllllon
from general revenues and smaller amounts from other sources.
The program provlslons were a compromlse of the Energy & Commerce and
Publlc Works & Transportatlon Commlttees proposals. They 1nclude cleanup
schedules. cleanup standards, cltlzen sluts, settlement procedures and
rlghtitoiknow provlslons 1nclud1ng a requlrement that certaln companles
report annually thelr total releases of chemlcals that can cause chronlc
health hazards. The House defeated an amendment to create a federal cause
of actlon. Thus, nelther the House or Senate mu contalns Victims
compensatlon provlslons, whlch was a key CMA prlorlty 1n Superfund
reauthorlzatlon.
The House and Senate conference on Superfund reauthorlzatlon could
begln 1n late January, after the conferees have been appolnted. But major
concerns need to be resolved on the fundlng level, mechanlsm and program
lssues. One of the major program lssues to be resolved 1n conference 15
how much dlscretlon to give EPA. The House mu spells out 1n great
detall what EPA should do and when to do 1:, where the Senate mu
provldes more general guldance.
The Superfund Task Group of CMA'S Government Relatlons Commlttee will
now focus 1:: attentlon on the House and Senate conferees. A strategy
will be developed and agresslvely unplemented on the tax and program
lssues.
Before Congress adjourned for the year on December 20, they made one
last effort to provlde fundlng for the Superfund program. on December 13
the House and Senate conference on budget reconclllatlon began to conslder
the Superfund fundlng lssues. They agreed on a compromlse of the Senate
fundlng mechanlsm (freeze feedstock: and a broadibased ram and the House
fundlng level of $10 bllllon over Elva years. But when the conference
report went back to the House for approval, Represenatlve Dan Rostenkowskl
(Dim) successfully moved to strlke the Superfund provlslons because of
the broadibased tax. Untll Congress ajoumed December 20 wlthout passlng
budget reconclllatlon, the House contlnued to delete Superfund and the
Senate kept insisting Superfund be 1ncluded. Th1: deadlock over the
dlfferent fundlng approaches approved by the House and Senate Signals how
dlfflcult the fundlng lssue Will be to resolve 1n 1935.
Regulatory Developments and Response
Natlonal Prlorlty L15: Comments. The EMC'S Superfund Implementatlon
Task Group submltted comments to EPA on proposed amendments to the
Natlonal Prlorlty Llst. The prlmary cm concern was EPA'S retalnlng
flexlblllty 1n requlrlng cleanups under Superfund or RCRA. we 1nd1cated
Page
5
cm 039510
that mandatlng that all cleanups be governed by one statute may be unduly
rigid and, 1n fact. slow down the cleanup process.
Pollcy Development, Analytlcal and Program Actlvltles
Natlonal Contlngency Plan Litigation. The EMC authorlzed cm to
1ntervene 1n lltlgatlon challenglng EPA'S revlslons to the Natlonal
Contlngency Plan. CMA'S concerns are:
(17 EPA 1nclud1ng technology
standards 1n addltlon m healthibased standards for purposes of
determlnlng what are relevant cleanup standards; (27 EPA establlshlng
costieffectlveness crlterla 1ncon515tent mm the statute; and (37 EPA
1ncorporat1ng other regulatory Agency standards for purposes of deflnlng
the relevant cleanup standards that go beyond the statute's requlrements.
Communlcatlons
Nearly all of the News Servlce Dlvlslon's efforts and resources were
dedlcated to Superfund durlng the October to December perlod. Brleflngs
on Superfund lssues for key medla contlnued durlng the perlod, and were
concentrated on Washlngton correspondents for the followlng newspapers and
news organlzatlons: Assoclated Press, Dow Jones News Servlce, Charleston
1w.v.7 Dally Mall, Dttaway News Servlce, Detrolt (M1ch.7 Free Press,
Scrlpps*ﬂoward News Servlces, USA Today, Wall Street Journal, Chlcago
TrlbunE. Chlcago SuniTlmes, aongvasmnal Quarterly, Newhouse News
SerV1CE, and Gannett News Servlce.
Durlng the last elght months of 1935, cm offlcers, membericompany
representatlves and assoclatlon staff have partlclpated 1n 133 brleflngs
on Superfund lssues 1n more than 70 cltles.
Televlslon and radlo actlvlty 1ncreased durlng the perlod on
Superfund lssues, especlally durlng November and December. cm made
extenslve use of 1:5 "alternatlve TV network," provldlng speclally
targeted newsfeeds to key Congresslonal dlstrlcts. Subjects covered 1n
the newsfeeds 1ncluded the economc unpact of Downey Superfund fundlng
proposal on chemlcal producers; proprlety of Ways and Means Commlttee passed Verslon of Superfund fundlng; and 1dent1£1catlon of 1ndustr1es
whlch have contrlbuted waste to Superfund sltes 7 that pay no Superfund
taxes. Targeted TV newsfeeds were dlstrlbuted 1n nearly 40 key
Congresslonal dlstrlcts. Usage, dependlng on the subject, ran between 25%
and 75%. Market reach of the targeted newsfeeds ranged from 1.9 mllllon
to 4.5 mllllon people.
Radlo newsfeeds were also produced on slmllar Superfund lssues durlng
the perlod. Usage averaged nearly 5%.
The department also asslsted 1n preparatlon of wrltten materlals for
the Government Relatlons Staff for use durlng House Superfund floor
debates.
Page
7
cm 039511
Immedlately prior to the House Vote on Superfund the department
prepared and placed a full page advertlsement 1n the Washlngton Post
urglng members to Vote NO on the Downey Amendment.
EPA 15 dlstrlbutlng "Cleanlng Up" (any: waste slte cleanup him to
1:5 reglonal offlces for use 1n communlty relatlons programs. The £11m
has been dlstrlbuted to more than an televlslon statlons. More than 110
prlnts have been sold to cm member companles for use 1n communlty and
employee relatlons programs. CMA'S Communlty Infomatlon Task Group 15
launchlng a £11m dlstrlbutlon plan that 1ncludes cm 1nvolvement, personal
televlslon contacts, publlclty, natlonal platforms for screenlng and
promotlng the £11m.
Hazardous Waste Management (RCRA7
Regulatory Developments and Response
Land Ban Prohibitions.
In early January, EPA will propose 1:5 flrst
set of rules to prohibit the dlsposal of many hazardous wastes 1n or on
the ground. Land dlsposal Will be prohlblted unless the level of of the
hazardous constltuents 1n the waste 15 less than the "health based
standard" EPA will establlsh for over 350 hazardous constltuents, or the
"best avaliable technology" 15 used to treat the waste to reduce the
hazards. The RCRA Regulatlons Task Group will prepare comments on thls
unportant and lengthy new rule.
Inorganlc Leachlng Model. on November 27, 1935, EPA lssued a flnal
rule adoptlng a model that predlcts the leachlng, mlgratlon and
perslstence of 1norgan1c wastes 1n the land. EPA will use the model to
determlne whlch 1norgan1c materlals should be llsted/dellsted as hazardous
wastes. The model. Hlth some Varlatlons, Will also be used to detemlne
whlch 1norgan1c wastes Will be banned from land dlsposal. The RCRA
Regulatlons Task Group commented on the proposed rule, and 15 revlewlng
the flnal rule to detemlne whether to challenge 1: 1n court.
Drganlc Leachlng Model. on November 27, 1935, EPA proposed a model
for predictlng the leachlng, mlgratlon, and perslstence or organlc wastes.
The methodology and 1ntended use of the organlc model 15 51mllar to the
1norgan1c model dlscussed above. The RCRA regulatlons Task Group 15
preparlng comments for filing on January 13, 1935.
Burnlng of Hazardous Waste 1n Bollars. CMA Hill partlclpate 1n 3
Keystone workshop on January 29, 1995 regardlng the lssue of burnlng
hazardous waste 1n hollers. A consensus may emerge that could fom the
basls of a rule EPA 15 developlng to regulate thls actlvlty. The Boller
Work Group has prepared a regulatory proposal that CMA will present at the
Page
s
cm 039512
Workshop. The proposal dlvldes hazardous waste burnlng 1nto three
categorles mm greater regulatlon for fuel that contalns the largest
percentage of hazardous waste.
Pollcy Development, Analytlcal and Program Actlvltles
1994 Hazardous Waste Survey. The EMC'S RCRA Regulatlons Task Group
has publlshed the results of the 1994 Hazardous Waste Survey of member
companles. The 1994 results show a contlnulng trend of decreased rellance
on landfllls for dlsposal of hazardous waste, but an 1ncreased rellance on
1nc1nerators for dlsposal. The survey trend analysls compares dlsposal
practlces for the years 199171994.
1995 Hazardous Waste Survey. The EMC has authorlzed the RCRA
Regulatlons Task Group to conduct a 1995 Hazardous waste Survey of member
companles. The survey to be completed later 1n 1935, Hill provlde CMA
Hlth the most recent data on the waste dlsposal practlces of the member
companles. The raw data and trends analyses are Valuable advocacy tools
for leglslatlve and regulatory matters concernlng hazardous waste
management.
RCRA Codlflcatlon Rule Litigation. The EMC authorlzed cm to
1ntervene 1n lltlgatlon challenglng EPA'S regulatlons deslgned to codlfy
many of the new requlrements of the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments
of 1934. These regulatlons cover the bulk llquld ban, minimum
technologlcal requlrements, the contlnulng releases provlslon, the interim
small quantlty generator provlslons, the preconstructlon ban, the
labelllng requlrements for hazardous waste fuels, the recordkeeplng
requlrements for hazardous waste exports, the waste mlnlmlze provlslons,
and collectlon systems and groundwater monltorlng provlslons. Although
these requlrements were supposed to merely codlfy statutory language, the
flnal regulatlons Either added provlslons and/or deleted certaln llmltlng
factors.
Supreme Court Hazardous Waste Siting Litigation. The EMC has
authorlzed CMA filing an amlcus brlef 1n the v.5. supreme Court...s
conslderatlon of a local ordlnance bannlng all permanent onislte dlsposal
facilities Hlthln the City of Falrmont, w. Va. The questlons to be
addressed by the Court are whether RCRA preempt: a local ordlnance's
prohibition of all dlsposal of hazardous waste pursuant to a federal
permlt and can a locallty prohibit all hazardous waste dlsposal Within 1::
borders. The resolutlon of thls case will have a longiterm unpact on the
way 1ndustry plans/manages 1:5 wastes.
Burnlng 1n Bollars Posltlon Paper. The EMC approved a revlsed
posltlon paper concernlng regulatlon of the burnlng of hazardous wastes 1n
1ndustrlal hollers. The revlslons reflect the 1994 Hazardous and Solid
Waste Amendments. The revlsed posltlon paper will be used to respond to
EPA'S antlclpated proposed regulatlon of the burnlng of hazardous wastes
Page
9
cm 039513
1n 1ndustrlal hollers.
In addltlon. the posltlon paper will be used 1n 3
cm sponsored Keystone Conference on burnlng hazardous wastes 1n
1ndustrlal hollers. Industry, government, and envlronmental
representatlves have been 1nv1ted m partlclpate 1n thls consensus
development conference.
Underground Injectlon Control Project
EPA Regulatory Issues. The Underground Injectlon Control Task Group
developed a 115: of regulatory lssues EPA needs to resolve as part of the
regulatory development process for land dlsposal ban declslons of
hazardous wastes dlsposed by underground 1njectlon. The resolutlon of
many of these lssues may have a threat 1mpact on whether or not certaln
wastes Hill ultlmately be allowed to be dlsposed by underground 1njectlon.
The questlons address technlcal, legal, and pollcy lssues.
mp: Sponsored Regulatory Negotlatlons. CMA'S Underground Injectlon
Control Group has been 1nv1ted to partlclpate 1n 3 Underground Injectlon
Practlces Councll mrpcy exploratory meetlng m determlne 15 the RCRA land
dlsposal ban appllcable to underground 1njectlon of hazardous wastes lssue
15 approprlate for regulatory negotlatlons. The initial meetlng 15 to
determlne 15 enough regulatory lssues exlst that are amenable to
meanlngful and successful negotlatlons. A fundamental questlon to be
resolved at the exploratory meetlng 15 whether all concerned partles are
willing to partlclpate 1n 3 negotlatlon actlvlty.
thlgatlon and Related Actlvltles
Deflnltlon of Solid waste. cm 15 challenglng 1n the Court of
Appeals EPA'S January 5, 1995 rule deflnlng solld waste to 1nclude
materlals resultlng from a manufacturlng process or used 1n 3
manufacturlng process that are reclalmed and reused 1n 3 "closediloop"
manner 1n thd same manufacturlng process. Th1: rule would subject to the
panoply of RCRA regulatlon an estlmated 3000 to sum tanks used by cm
members 1n thelr manufacturlng operatlons. As part of the litigation, CMA
has convlnced EPA to propose an amendment to 1:: rules that would exclude
thls "closediloop" reclamatlon from EPA jurlsdlctlon. EPA proposed such
an amendment on December 16, 1995 and am will Elle comments supportlng
the amendment.
Codlflcatlon Rule/Correctlve Actlon. CMA has 1ntervened 1n a
challenge to EPA'S July 15, 1995 rule codlfylng the 1994 RCRA Amendments.
The challenge 1nvolves, among other lssues, the questlon of to what extent
must owners of waste facilities repalr the envlronment damaged by prior
releases. cm 15 monltorlng the lltlgatlon and may partlclpate 1n
settlement negotlatlons mm EPA almed at clarlfylng the rule.
Alr
I
Page
10
cm 039514
Congresslonal Developments and Response
House Actlvlty. The Bonsaipassed Superfund leglslatlon contalns a
communlty rlghtitoiknow amendment sponsored by Rep. Bob Edgar ”Hm,
1nclud1ng alr emlsslons reportlng requlrements.
(See further descrlptlon
under "nghtitoiknow".7 The Edgar amendment 7 even 15 altered 1n
conference 7 will affect future air toxlcs leglslatlon.
Currently the only fulliscale air toxlcs mu 1: 3.x. 257a, whlch
Rep. Henry Waxman ”Hm, 1ntroduced. Slnce Waxman held hearlngs on 3.x.
2575 last June, he has been preoccupled Hlth Superfund, and other lssues.
In fact Waxman actlvely supported and worked for the Edgar amendment.
Early 1n 1935, Waxman reportedly plans to resume efforts toward full
scale alr toxlcs leglslatlon. Th1: could mean addltlonal hearlngs,
changes 1n 3.x. 2575, or new proposals. In antlelpatlon, Rep. John
mngen (Dim) contlnues to collect 1nformatlon and data from EPA and
other sources regardlng air emlsslons and control.
am will address the Edgar amendment 1n the House and Senate
conference on Superfund, and 15 preparlng for addltlonal alr toxlcs
actlvlty 1n 1935.
Senate Actlvlty. The Senatejoassed Superfund leglslatlon also
contalns communlty rlghtitoiknow emlsslon reportlng requlrements 1nclud1ng
alr emlsslons. am also will address thls provlslon, sponsored by Senator
Frank Lautenberg ”Hm, 1n the conference on Superfund.
There have been no Senate hearlngs or full scale air toxlcs
proposals; however. Senate hearlngs on acld raln began 1n December 1935,
and alr toxlcs may be the next toplc 1n the Envlronment & Publlc Works
Commlttee.
Regulatory Developments and Response
Chromlum Comments. The EMC'S Process Emlsslon Regulatlons Task Group
submltted comments to EPA on the Agency's notlce of 1ntent to 115:
chromlum and hexavalent chromlum as hazardous alr pollutants. CMA'S
comments focused on the technlcal adequacy of exposure assessments
conducted by EPA and the use of chromlum 1n coollng towers and the need
for more technlcal analyses on whether the chromlum emlsslons result 1n
amblent problems.
Emlsslons Tradlng Pollcy Petition. cm, 1n conjunctlon mm other
1ndustry groups, has petltloned EPA to publlsh an emlsslons tradlng pollcy
more 1n llne mm the orlglnal 1ntent negotlated between EPA and partles
challenglng an earller EPA alr emlsslons pollcy. The most recent draft of
Page
11
cm 039515
an air emlsslons tradlng pollcy appeared to fundamentally change course
and undercut the utility of an emlsslons tradlng pollcy. The goal of the
1ndustry petition 15 to persuade EPA to publlsh an emlsslons tradlng
pollcy that facllltates 1ndustry growth and protects the envlronment.
Secondary Emlsslons Comments. The EMC'S Process insslon Regulatlons
Task Group submltted comments to EPA on a technlcal report on developmg a
program of air regulatlons at hazardous waste treatment, storage and
dlsposal facilities. CMA'S comments focused on technlcal aspects of
estlmatlng air emlsslons from hazardous waste dlsposal sltes. The
comments are deslgned to 55515: 1n developmg better and more accurate
predlctlve models for estlmatlng alr emlsslons from the unlts comprlslng
waste dlsposal facilities.
Pollcy Development, Analytlcal and Program Actlvltles
1
Recommended Alr Toxlcs Leglslatlve Prlnclples. The EMC has approved
recommended prlnclples for addresslng federal and state alr toxlcs
leglslatlon. The recommended prlnclples address both routlne emlsslons
and accldental emlsslons. The prlnclples, 15 adopted by the Board of
Dlrectors, Will be used 1n developlng CMA'S alr toxlcs leglslatlve
advocacy programs at the federal and state level.
Proposed Alr Toxlcs Control Pollcy. The EMC has asslsted members of
the Executlve Commlttee 1n developlng a proposed air toxlcs control
pollcy. As part of thls actlvlty, EMC members drafted initial Verslons of
the alr toxlcs control pollcy, and 1dent1£1ed Varlous optlons on how such
a pollcy could be 1mplemented by cm member companles.
If approved by
CMA'S Board of Dlrectors, the EMC plans a Significant educatlon and
technlcal program to 55515: the member companles 1n unplementlng the alr
toxlcs control pollcy.
thlgatlon and Related Actlvltles
Benzene Litigation. CMA has submltted 1:5 brlef 1n a court 5m:
brought by the Natural Resources Defense Councll, Inc.
(mum) challenglng
EPA'S emlsslon standards for benzene under sectlon 112 of the Clean Alr
Act. The case revolves around the "ample margln of safety" test of
sectlon 112. mm: contends that EPA 15 requlred to set "zeroirlsk, zero
emlsslon" standards for all carclnogens. CMA and the Amerlcan Petroleum
InstltutE. who also 15 a party, are argulng 1n support of EPA'S posltlon
that the Agency 15 authorlzed to take cost and feaslblllty 1nto account 1n
settlng emlsslon standards.
Radlonuclldes Litigation. on January 13, CMA ﬁlled 1:5 brlef 1n 3
case 1nvolv1ng emlsslon standards for radlonuclldes. Th1: case, whlch
ralses lssues Similar to those 1n the benzene litigation, focuses on the
"ample margln of safety" test of Sectlon 112 of the Clean Alr Act. mum
agaln argues that EPA must set "zeroirlsk, zero emlsslon" standards for
Page
12
cm 039515
r
I
I
all carclnogens. cm counters that EPA has flexlblllty under the statute
o conslder cost and feaslblllty 1n settlng emlsslon standards.
1nyl Chlorlde Litigation. cm prevlously 1ntervened 1n a court 5m:
rough: by mum challenglng EPA'S emlsslon standards for Vinyl chlorlde.
15 case probably will be the flrst m declde the meanlng of the "ample
m rgln of safety" test 1n sectlon 112 of the Clean Alr Act. All brlefs
h we been ﬁlled and a declslon 1: expected thls sprlng.
c mmunlcatlons
T a department prepared a summary and questlon and answer document on
t e mngen Survey.
5 rface Water
a gresslonal Developments and Response
c ference on Clean Water Act Amendments. Conference on the Senate
an House Verslons of s. 1129 may occur before conference on Superfund.
Th tlmlng depends upon resolutlon of the controversy over constructlon
gr nts fundlng, whlch 15 not an lssue of threat concern to cm.
a '5 Elva major lssues, on whlch the Clean Water Act Task Group has
be un dlstrlbutlng technlcal papers and dlscusslng 1mprovements needed by
th conferees, are the followlng:
0
Co pllance Deadllnes 7 cm supports the House Verslon applylng a 3 1/2
ye rs deadllne.
0
Pa altles 7 cm supports the House Verslon provldlng for admlnlstratlve
pe alty hearlng (APA7 procedures; falrer slze of maxlmum admlnlstratlve
c1 11 penaltles; cltlzen 5m: precluslon relatlve to admlnlstratlve
pe altlesi falrer slze of maxlmum judlclal clvll penaltles; and,
BE 1rmat1ve defense protectlon agalnst crlmlnal penaltles.
0
Eu damentally leferent Factors mm Varlances 7 cm supports the
Ho 5e Verslon allowlng use of pup compared to the almost totally
re trlctlve Senate Verslon.
0
Po tiBest Avallable Technology (EAT) Requlrements 7 cm prefers the
Se ate Verslon provldlng more tune and state responslblllty.
o
5: water Pemlts 7 CMA supports the House Verslon whlch better
ta at: the types of dlscharges that should be pemltted and provldes
for a better regulatory program.
Reg latory Developments and Response
Fag
13
cm 039517
ocp F Effluent Guldellnes Comments. EMC'S Effluent Guldellnes Task
Gro p developed comprehenslve comments on EPA...5 proposed revlslons to the
org nlc chemlcals, plastlcs, and synthetlc flbers (ocPsFy effluent
gul ellnes. CMA'S comments hlghllght technlcal problems 1n EPA'S
reg latory proposals and offer constructlve alternatlves m achleve the
Sam envlronmental results. CMA'S comments concentrate on EPA'S fallure
to eflect the hlgh levels of waste water treatment already 1n exlstence
and the enomous addltlonal costs that mlght be mposed mm minimal
env ronmental beneflt to meet the proposed limits. Representatlves of CMA
and 1:: member companles met Hlth EPA'S Asslstant Admlnlstrator for water
and dlscussed CMA'S concern mm the proposed revlslons to the ocPsF
eff uent guldellnes.
5m water Permit Regulatlons Comments. EMC'S Water Permlts Task
Gro p submltted comments to EPA on proposed revlslons to the mums
no water regulatlons. CMA comments indicate general support for EPA'S
"ge eral pemlt" approach, but offers several modlflcatlons to remedy some
1nd stry concerns. cm representatlves dlscussed our recommedatlons mm
EPA staff durlng the comment perlod. Generally, the proposed revlslons,
15 odlfled 1n the flnal regulatlons, Will be a reasonable stomwater
reg latory requlrement.
Prl rlty Pollutant Llstlng/Dellstlng Comments. The EMC'S Water
Qua 1ty Crlterla and Standards Task Group, 1n conjunctlon mm the
Pht slate Esters Panel. has developed comments on EPA'S report
est 115mm; 3 ranklng 115: of Sectlon 307157 prlorlty pollutants. The
rep t offers 1ndustry an opportunlty to dellst certaln chemlcals from the
Seat on 307157 prlorlty 115: and subsequent regulatlon under Varlous Clean
Wate Act provlslons. The Phthalate Esters Panel has been actlvely
1nvolved 1n thls project because the EPA draft technlcal publlcatlon
concernlng phthalate esters expressly allowed a dellstlng procedure.
EPA Blomonltorlng Studles Comments. EMC'S Water Quallty Crlterla and
Standards Task Group submltted comments to EPA on a recent blomonltorlng
study 1nvolv1ng the Kanawah Ruler. CMA'S comments addressed several
sclentlflc and technlcal deflclencles mm the study and offered
recommendatlons on how to cure several of them. The blomonltorlng
actlvlty 15 of speclal concern to many member companles Since EPA reglonal
offlces are 1ncorporat1ng blomonltorlng requlrements as part of second
round mums permlts.
thlgatlon and Related Legal Actlvltles
Stormwater Litigation. on August 29, EPA declded to make a major
change 1n the deadllne for submlttlng stormwater permlt appllcatlons under
the Clean Water Act. The orlglnal data had been Aprll 2a, 1935. However,
CMA and other 1ndustry groups mounted a major effort to convlnce EPA that
the deadllne was unreasonable. cm member companles partlclpated 1n the
effort by contactlng EPA and documentlng the practlcal problems posed by
Page
14
CMA 038618
the deadllne. on August 29, EPA agreed Hlth our posltlon, changlng the
deadllne to December 31, 1995 for 1ndustrlal (Group 17 dlscharges and June
30, 1997 for other (Group 117 dlscharges. However, the Natural Resources
Defense Councll (mum has now ﬁlled 5m: challenglng the deadllne
extenslon. Slnce the extenslon 15 Very unportant to 1ndustry and rests
substantlally upon concerns brought to EPA'S attentlon by 1ndustry, cm
and the other trade assoclatlons that have been 1nvolved mm the
stormwater lssue have declded m 1ntervene 1n mum's Cass, 1n support of
EPA . He Will jolntly present the argument that EPA was justlfled 1n
extendlng the deadllne 1n order to remedy serlous practlcal defects 1n the
orlglnal stormwater regulatlons.
Pestlcldes Effluent Guldellnes Litigation. on October 4, EPA lssued
effluent guldellnes and standards under the Clean Water Act for the
pestlcldes 1ndustry. Because of the strong connectlons between the
pestlcldes and organlc chemlcals 1ndustr1es, several generlc regulatory
lssues addressed 1n the pestleldes rules are also 1mportant 1n the ongolng
rulemaklng for the organlc chemlcals, plastlcs and synthetlc flbers
(ocPsFy 1ndustry. am has therefore declded m partlclpate 1n lltlgatlon
on the pestlclde regulatlons, Since any judlclal declslon on those
questlons 1n the pestlclde context will surely serve as precedent for
EPA'S regulatlon of ocPsF plants. In the litigation, CMA Will be worklng
closely mm other affected 1ndustry groups and companles to coordlnate
efforts and, m the extent posslble, present a unlted 1ndustry posltlon on
the 1mportant lssues m be brlefed.
Groundwater (Includes Safe Drlnklng Water Acm
Congresslonal Developments and Response
Jsafe Drlnklng Water
Congress 1: expected to give flnal approval early 1n 1995 to a Safe
Drlnklng Water Act reauthorlzatlon that would slgnlflcantly strengthen the
federal law that protects the quallty of drlnklng water.
on May 15, the Senate approved by Volce Vote a Senate mu (5. 1247
sponsored by Senator Dave Durenberger mime). on June 17, the House by
Volce Vote approved a House proposal 13.1}. 15507 1ntroduced by Rep.
Edward R. Madlgan (RilLy. Both mus would set deadllnes for the
Envlronmental Protectlon Agency to regulate drlnklng water contamlnants,
requlre monltorlng for unregulated contamlnants, and establlsh a
demonstratlon program for plannlng to protect aqulfers that are the sole
or prlnclpal source of a communlty's drlnklng water.
After the early actlon the House and Senate conference was delayed
repeatedly because staff and members were busy Hlth Superfund, clean water
and other lssues.
Staffers remaln optlmlstlc that dlfferences over
Page
IS
CMA 039519
standardisettlng, groundwater, judlclal revlew and fundlng provlslons Will
be resolved. The House mu would requlre states to develop and adopt
plans to protect all present and potentlal underground sources of drlnklng
water. Also. the House mu has slgnlflcantly lower authorlzatlon levels.
EPA objects to most of the maln provlslons of both mus, argulng they
would lessen the agency's dlscretlon and are unnecessary.
CMA has supported the Senate mu over the House Verslon on three
lssues: standard settlng, no comprehenslve groundwater protectlon
program. and the Senate crltlcal aqulfer demonstratlon program 1nstead of
the House sole source.
Groundwater
Senator Dave Durenberger mime) has held a hearlngs leadlng toward
the 1ntroductlon of ms groundwater protectlon mu early 1n 1935.
Senators George Mltchell (Drum and Max Baucus (Drum 1ntroduced
thelr groundwater protectlon mm on November 7, 1935, s. 1935, prlmarlly
m begln the dlscusslons 1n the groundwater debate. Th1: mu would
requlre states to have thelr own groundwater protectlon programs and m
establlsh groundwater quallty standards, Hlth asslstance from the Federal
Government. cm 15 currently worklng on an analysls of the
Mltchell/Baucus mm.
The Natlonal Groundwater Pollcy Forum, led by Gov. Bruce Babbltt of
Arlzona, announced 1:: leglslatlve recommendatlons. These
recommendatlons. together Hlth Senator Mltchell's and Senator
Durenberger's mus, Hill llkely serve as the initial focal polnt for the
groundwater leglslatlve debate next year. CMA 1: 1n the process of
completlng an analysls of the Forum's proposal.
Regulatory Developments and Response
EPA Health Advlsorles Comments. The EMC'S Groundwater Management
Task Group submltted comments to EPA on the Agency's generlc approach to
health advlsorles and detalled comments on 25 chemcakspemnc health
advlsorles. CMA'S comments 1dent1£1ed concerns and deflclencles Hlth
several assumptlons, 1ncluslon of some data, and speclflc health
advlsorles language. The flnal health advlsorles Will be used 1n
developmg drlnklng water crlterla that Will be used 1n developlng state
drlnklng water standards.
Pollcy Development, Analytlcal and Program Actlvltles
Recommended Maxlmum Contamlnant Levels Litigation. The EMC
authorlzed CMA m partlclpate 1n 3 judlclal challenge of EPA'S recently
publlshed recommended maxlmum contamlnant levels (mam. For several
Page
15
CMA 039520
substances, EPA has set the RMCL at zero. These 11mm: are 1mportant
healthibased standards that will serve as precedents for regulatlon of
many chemlcals used or manufactured by member companles. The EMC'S
Groundwater Management Task Group has 1dent1£1ed several serlous technlcal
flaws 1n EPA'S standard settlng methodology. and in the Agency's
1ntezpretatlon and use of sclentlflc 1nformatlon.
thlgatlon and Related Legal Actlvltles
Safe Drlnklng Water Act RMCL Litigation. on November 13, EPA
promulgated flnal Recommended Maxlmum Contalnment Levels (RMCL'57 under
the Safe Drlnklng Water Act for elght Volatlle synthetlc organlc chemlcals
(voc'sy. These chemlcals are benzene, Vinyl chlorlde, trlchlorethylene,
ethylene dlchlorlde, carbon tetrachlorlde, Vlnylldene chlorlde, methyl
chlorofom. and pidlchlorbenzene. Whlle the RMCL'S are technlcally only
nonienforceable health goals, ...they have crltlcal unportance for the
chemlcal 1ndustry: Prlmarlly because they are often used as the standards
of acceptable groundwater quallty 1n Superfund cleanups, RCRA permittlng
declslons. and state groundwater management programs.
In settlng the
elght vac RMCL'S,EPA followed a strategy whlch resulted 1n the RMCL'S for
Elva VDC'S bemg set at zero on the basls of finding of "probably
carclnogenlclty." Moreover, 1: appears that EPA mlslntezpreted sclentlflc
data 1n reachlng several of 1:5 concluslons regardlng carclnogenlclty of
these VDC'S. Because of these iSSuES, and the 1mportance of the RMCL'S,
CMA has declded to partlclpate 1n lltlgatlon challenglng EPA'S declslons.
CMA 15 coordlnatlng 1:5 efforts mm other 1ndustry groups that Will also
be 1nvolved 1n the case.
Communlcatlons
The department 15 worklng Hlth the State Affalrs Task Group of the
Groundwater Management Commlttee to prepare an 1nformatlon brochure on
groundwater for use at the state level.
Regulatlon of Chemlcals (TSCA and related)
Regulatory Developments and Response
Response to TSCA Sectlon 4 Generlc Testlng lssues. Posltlons on two
generlc testlng lssues were developed by the Hazard Assessment Task
Group, mm the 1ntent that the posltlons be used 1n CMA dlscusslons mm
EPA or as am posltlons on proposed rules or leglslatlve lssues related
to tests.
0
Issue: Use of TSCA Sectlon 4 m requlre the testlng of substances
used as 1nert pestlelde lngredlents.
Posltlon;
The Task Group concluded that EPA cannot justlfy
Page
17
CMA 039521
Sectlon 4 test rules solely on the basls of use of a chemlcal
substance as a pestlclde 1nert. A chemlcal substance would be
regulated under TSCA only up to the polnt 1n 1:: life cycle where
1: 15 1ncorporated 1nto a pestlclde fomulatlon.
Subsequent to
1:5 1ncozporatlon, the 1nert lngredlent becomes part of a 17mm
pestlclde formulatlon and 15 regulated approprlately under 17mm.
Th1: cm posltlon was approved by the Health and Safety Commlttee
at thelr November meetlng.
0
Issue;
Use of TSCA Sectlon 4 to requlre monltorlng for the
presence of chemlcal substances.
Posltlon; EPA does not have the authorlty under Sectlon 4 to
requlre monltorlng or analytlcal tests because Sectlon 4157 15
llmlted m testlng of the health and envlronmental effects of
chemlcal substances and mlxtures.
Recognlzlng, however, that
rellable human and envlronmental exposure data may be necessary
for a sound assessment of rlsks presented by a chemlcal, CMA Hill,
as a matter of pollcy, work mm EPA to to develop monltorlng and
analytlcal 1nfomatlon when 1: 15 needed. Th1: posltlon was
approved by the Health and Safety Conmlttee at thelr December
meetlng.
Quallty Assurance. At the request of the Hazard Assessment Task
Group, cm CD’sponsored a conference 1n November Hlth AIHC 1n Ralelgh,
North Carollna. entltled "Managlng Conduct and Data Quallty of Toxlcology
Studles." The conference was a jolnt 1ndustryigovernment sponsored
Venture, and establlshed a dlalogue between toxlcology testlng groups 1n
government and 1ndustry. Quallty assurance programs and GLP lssues were
dlscussed. Proceedlngs Will be forthcomlng 1n 1935.
Comprehenslve Reportlng. on December 20, 1935, cm ﬁlled comments on
the second draft of the form developed for the comprehenslve assessment
1nfomatlon rule. Although the form was a, great unprovement over the
flrst draft, CMA relterated 1:5 recommendatlon that the Agency coordlnate
the collectlon and management of data before unplementlng thls broad
reportlng rule. am will meet mm the Agency as the proposed rule enters
Agency revlew 1n February.
New Chemlcal followup. The Conservatlon Foundatlon's Toxlc
Substances Dlalogue Group, of whlch CMA 15 a member, has recommended that
EPA 1mplement a new approach to followlng the commerclal development of
new chemlcals. The procedure recommended by the Dlalogue Group would
allow EPA to more easlly follow, and 15 necessary regulate, changes 1n
manufacture or use that occur after a new chemlcal has been through Agency
revlew of the premanufacture notlce and then manufactured for commerclal
purposes. cm and other members of the Dlalogue Group will meet Hlth EPA
1n January to dlscuss the proposal.
Page
19
CMA 039522
EPA'S Methods for Assessmg Dccupatlonal Exposure.
The Health and
Safety Commlttee's Exposure Assessment Task Group revlewed and crlthued
EPA'S methods for assesslng occupatlonal exposure to chemlcals.
The
Exposure Assessment Task Group proposed modlflcatlons to dlsperslon
assessments, partlcularly 1n partlcle aerodynamlcs, m 1mprove the
accuracy of EPA'S assessments.
Evaluatlon of Exposure Assessment Methods.
The Exposure Assessment
Task Group has begun an evaluatlon of exposure assessment methods used by
government and 1ndustry.
The project will detemlne the Valldlty and
approprlate uses of the assessment methods. and Hill 1mprove the accuracy
of exposure assessments done as a part of the regulatory process.
The
evaluatlon Will also hlghllght crltlcal data gaps and assumptlons.
These
can then be targeted as hlgh priority research areas.
The evaluatlon of
exposure methods will make 1: less necessary to rely on "worst case"
assumptlons 1n the exposure assessments that form the foundatlon of many
regulatlons.
Food and Drug Admlnlstratlon Synhosmm.
The Health and Safety
Commlttee's Rlsk Assessment Task Group provlded sclentlflc 1nfomatlon m
the Food and Drug Admlnlstratlon's symposlum on Interspecles Extrapolatlon
of Carclnogenlclty Data.
The symposlum identified sclentlflc advances 1n
extrapolatlng laboratory experlments to human experlence,
1nfomatlon
provlded by the Rlsk Assessment Task Group 1ncluded qualltatlve
extrapolatlon between specles, factors that contrlbute m dlfferences 1n
response between specles, approaches that have been used 1n the past, and
potentlally productlve areas for future research.
Health and Safety Reportlng.
on November 27, 1935, cm submltted
comments to EPA on 1:: proposals to amend the requlrements for submlttlng
health and safety data under sectlon may of TSCA.
CMA agreed that there
are clrcumstances that Hill justlfy extendlng the perlod of reportlng for
certaln chemlcals, but objected to EPA'S proposal to extend most reportlng
from 3 years to 10 years.
CMA also took exceptlons m EPA'S proposal to
requlre companles to 115: studles that have already been submltted to
other offlces Hlthln EPA.
For studles already submltted to other federal
agencles, He urged EPA to begln unplementlng the 1nteragency coordlnatlon
provlslons of sectlon 10 of TSCA to relleve companles of the burden of
dupllcatlve submlsslons.
Procedural Rules for Negotlated Testlng.
In August, 1935, CMA and
the Natural Resources Defense Councll (mum jolntly submltted to EPA for
offlclal approval a draft procedural rule to allow EPA and manufacturers
to negotlate toxlclty testlng requlrements.
The draft was the product of
several meetlngs 1nvolv1ng cm, mum, and EPA staff.
Senlor EPA offlclals
are now revlewlng a flnal Verslon that Copies the draft almost exactly.
The flnal Verslon 1: expected to be promulgated 1n February, 1935.
1:
Hill raiestabllsh negotlatlons as a legltlmate procedure for decldlng what
Page
19
CMA 039523
testlng needs to be done.
1: also represents the occaslonal value of
threat dlscusslon Hlth a natlonal envlronmental organlzatlon.
Blotechnology Developments.
CMA staff counsel, as well as several
member company representatlves, are partlclpatlng 1n 3 Keystone Center
dlalogue on the regulatlon of blotechnology.
The initial meetlng at
Keystone occurred 1n OctobEr; others are planned for wlnter, spring, and
summer of 1935.
In the meantlme. on November 14, 1935, the Offlce of
Sclence and Technology Pollcy announced the creatlon of a Blotechnology
Sclence Coordlnatlng Commlttee Hlthln osrp to coordlnate among federal
agencles and promote conslstent pollcles.
More recently , Senators
Durenburger ”Ham and Baucus uHm 1ntroduced s.
1957, The Blosafety
Act, whlch would amend the Toxlc Substances Control Act to establlsh a
permit system for genetlcally englneered mlcroorganlsms and to give a
statutory charter to the Blotechnology Sclence Coordlnatlng Commlttee.
Internatlonal Regulatlon
U.S./Sweden Consultatlons.
on October 22723, 1935, the
Internatlonal Affalrs Group (may partlclpated as 1ndustry
advlsors m the v.5. Governmental Delegatlon at bllateral
consultatlons Hlth the Swedlsh Government on 1:: "New Act on
Chemlcal Products 1n Sweden".
The consultatlons were held 1n
Stockholm.
ms had prevlously submltted comments on the New
Act to the Offlce of the v.5. Trade Representatlve msTm.
The comments address a number of chemlcal notlflcatlon. testlng,
confldentlallty and labellng lssues, as well as suggested
amendments on cheallcal 1nventory compllatlon and exemptlons from
notlflcatlon.
Consultatlons Hlth Japanese on Chemlcal Testlng.
on
November 19, 1935, the ma met Hlth a Japanese Delegatlon
(from Mlnlstry of Internatlonal Trade and Industry (MITD
and the Japan Chemlcal Industry Asslclatlon mcmyy m
dlscuss the forthcomlng revlslons m the Japanese Chemlcal
Substances Control Law.
The central lssue of the agenda was
whether Japan will adopt a bassiset (European style) test
requlrement or adopt a Cassibyicase phllosophy (TSCA style)
for testlng of new chemlcals.
The Japanese chemlcal 1ndustry
prlvately opposes the bassiset phllosophy but ylelds m the
Government and the academlc proponents of such a requlrement.
As a consequence of our meetlng, a detalled text was prepared
and submltted formally by members of the Dow Japan staff to MITI,
summarlzlng IAG'S concerns and recommendatlons agalnst the
adoptlon of the base set approach 1n Japan.
Page
20
CMA 039524
European Communlty Preparatlons Dlrectlve.
The ma has
submltted 1:5 Vlews to the v.5. Government regardlng the European
Councll's Dlrectlve Relatlng m the Classlflcatlon, Packaglng and
Labellng of Dangerous Preparatlons.
Alded by counsel, 3 cooperatlve
effort between ms and the Health and Safety Commlttee has ylelded
a set of comments whlch were submltted to usm, the Departments of
State and CommerCE, and EPA on January 7, 1935.
The comments
relate to confldentlallty, labellng and product llablllty concerns
mm the Directive, as well as the economc burdens of compllance
on the chemlcal 1ndustry.
Australlan Chemlcal Law.
The ma will address new developments
on the Australlan Chemlcal Reglstratlon Law whlch have been under
conslderatlon for several months and appear to be 1n a nearly
flnallzed form that should be publlshed Within the next three
months.
Publlc Compensatlon
husk, Health and related 155DES7
Congresslonal Developments and Response
House Superfund Actlvlty.
on December 10, the House of
Representatlves defeated an amendment to add a federal cause of actlon m
the Superfund reauthorlzatlon mm.
The amendment, offered by
Representatlve Barney Frank (Drum, would have allowed clalmants to sue 1n
federal court for health or property damage allegedly caused by exposure
to hazardous wastes.
Companles* sued would have been absolutely llable for
any damages.
The House Vote assures that the Superfund reauthorlzatlon mu Will
not 1nclude a publlc compensatlon provlslon.
In conslderlng 1:5 Verslon
of a Superfund mu two months earller, the Senate Voted agalnst
establlshlng a compensatlon fund as part of a "demonstratlon program." The
House and Senate Votes are a Significant Vlctory for cm, whlch actlvely
worked to prevent passage of a costly new compensatlon program.
Product Liability.
CMA submltted comments on the second draft (Staff
worklng Draft #27 of the product liability mu clrculated by Senate
Commerce Commlttee Chalman John Danforth mimow These comments commend
Senator Danforth for seeklng product liability reform and for
1ncozporat1ng many of the suggestlons offered to the prevlous draft.
Nevertheless, Staff Draft «2 remalns serlously flawed.
The prlnclple
problem 15 mm causatlon.
A new presumptlon (a 30:1 1ncrease 1n the
1nc1dence of a dlsease establlshes causatlorﬂ would impose llablllty even
though there 15 only a small chance of actual responslblllty.
In
addltlon. the proposal lacks fundamental due process.
A detemlnatlon of
causatlon by a newly created Natlonal Toxlc Health Effects Panel would be
Page
21
CMA 039525
unrevlewable and beyond the challenge of partles on Either Side.
Hearlngs
on the draft proposal are expected 1n late February or early March.
Insurance Issues Developments and Response
Envlronmental Liability Insurance.
CMA asslsted 1n the preparatlon
of a report to the Natlonal Assoclatlon of Insurance Commlssloners (mum
on envlronmental llablllty 1nsurance.
The NAIC 15 an organlzatlon of
state 1n5urance regulatory offlclals, mm actlve partlclpatlon by state
1nsurance commlssloners.
The NAIC report deals Hlth the background and hlstory of the
envlronmental liability 1nsurance problem, outllnes the leglslatlve and
judlclal developments affectlng the marketplace, and assesses current
market condltlons.
CMA partlclpatlon 1n the NAIC effort assured the
development of a falr and balanced report.
Work 15 now underway on the second phase of the project, whlch 15 to
make approprlate recommendatlons to the NAIC on how to address the
envlronmental liability 1nsurance problem.
Dccupatlonal and Publlc Safety
Congresslonal Developments and Response
Worker nghtitoiknow.
Rep. Joe Gaydos' mam Health and Safety
Subcommlttee held addltlonal hearlngs last October and November on his
ngh Rlsk Dccupatlonal Dlsease Notlflcatlon and Preventlon Act, 3.x.
1309.
Th1: mu would requlre the Natlonal Instltute for Dccupatlonal
Safety and Health mmsm to establlsh a system for 1dentlfy1ng, notlfylng
and preventlng lllness among workers who are exposed to 1ncreased rlsk of
occupatlonal dlsease.
Medlcal experts from the Monsanto Co. and Dow Comlng testlfled on
behalf of am October 9.
We supported the general goals of 3.x. 1309 but
strongly opposed 1:5 speclflcs, especlally 1:5 trlgger mechanlsm for
detemlnlng "elevated rlsks" of occupatlonal dlsease,
other 1ndustry
groups and the Admlnlstratlon testlfled and took a 51min approach.
Backed by solld organlzed labor support, Mr. Gaydos 5:111 plans to
mark up the mm and report 1: from the subcommlttee 1n the Spring of
1935.
A CMA technlcal task group 15 developmg responslve posltlons that
can be used to work constructlvely Hlth subcommlttee members and thelr
staff.
Communlty nghtitoiknow 11mg .
Last September, the Senate passed the
Superfund reauthorlzatlon b111, 3.x. 2005, 1nclud1ng communlty RTK
amendments sponsored by Senator Frank Lautenberg mrNJy.
CMA and 1::
Page
22
CMA 039525
member companles worked Hlth Lautenberg m achleve more practlcal
emergency response provlslons generally conslstent mm our CARR
initiatives.
Also 1ncluded were somewhat narrower hazardous substance
1nventory emlsslons/dlscharge reportlng requlrements, whlch 5:111 need
more unprovements 1n the conference.
on December 10, 1935, the House of Representatlves passed 1::
Superfund reauthorlzatlan, 3.x. 2317.
The communlty RTK requlrements are
based on materlal safety data sheets, emergency response provlslons are
baslcally conslstent mm the CMA CAER/NCRIC programs, and He supported
the essentlal features of those two provlslons.
But a thlrd element was
added:
emlsslons/dlscharge reportlng.
We succeeded 1n1tlally 1n limiting
th 11:: of extremely toxlc substances, for whlch such reportlng would be
requlred, to only those substances so acutely toxlc that thelr release
1n any amount would present an imminent and substantlal endangerment to
human health.
Also 1ncluded was language pemlttlng a company to utilize
reasonable estlmates rather than expenslve threat monltorlng for meetlng
the reportlng requlrements.
Eventually however, the 115: of extremely
toxlc substances was broadened by a floor amendment sponsored by
Congressman Robert Edgar mam m 1nclude substances causlng adverse
chronlc health effects.
CMA has not argued that there 15 no need for any emlsslons/dlscharge
reportlng.
However. we dld contend that hastlly addlng""stlclxlireportlng to
Superfund would be premature and detract from the blll's maln purpose:
the clean up of hazardous waste sltes.
CMA worked mm a Coalltlon of
allled 1ndustry groups mm a small busmess focus, led by the Synthetlc
Drganlc Chemlcals Assoclatlon 150mm 1n support of efforts by key
Congressmen John mngell (Drum, James Broyhlll (Rina) and Gene Snyder
Desplte these efforts, whlch 1ncluded state and local offlclals,
the Internatlonal Assoclatlon of Fire Chlefs, and the Admlnlstratlon (EPA
and the Whlte Housah the Edgar amendment flnally prevalled on the House
floor by one Vote margln:
2117210.
CMA Will be worklng Hlth the 1ndustry Coalltlon m achleve reasonable
reportlng crlterla 1n the House/Senate Conference on Superfund.
Pollcy Development, Analytlcal and Program Actlvltles
Safety Guldes.
In response to requests from member companles, the
Health and Safety Commlttee, through 1:: Safety Programs Task Group, 15
updatlng CMA'S dlscontlnued Safety Gulde serles.
The revlsed publlcatlons
Hill 35515: member companles 1n addresslng certaln unportant safety
questlons.
The revlsed publlcatlons will focus on safety technlques.
In
addltlon to new Verslons of Sixteen of the orlglnal "Guldes", new
documents on the storage and handllng of hazardous substances and slte
emergency response are bemg eagerly antlclpated by CARR partlclpants.
Process Safety Semlnars.
HSC'S Process Safety Analysls Task Group
Page
23
CMA 039527
has conducted two Process Safety Management semlnars durlng the past
years. mm the mum scheduled for February 13, 1935.
These overvlews of
programs and technlques have been unlformly well attended and
enthuslastlcally recelved.
The February presentatlon 15 belng opened to
on7CMA partlclpants; a large turnout of government regulatory agency
pe nel 15 antlclpated.
Revlslo ANSI 2129.1;
Hazardous In r131 Chemlcals Precautlonary Labellng.
The Labellng Tas up of the Health and Safety
Commlttee began 1:: re ion of the ANSI Standard on precautlonary
labellng 1n the fall of 19
Among the addltlons m be 1nco ted 1n
the Voluntary standard are chronlc h d language and symbol
recommendatlons.
The Projected date of completlon 15 early 19:; .
thlgatlon and Related Legal Actlvltles
New Jersey nghtitoiknow Litigation.
on October 11, 1935, the mum
Clrcult Court of Appeals lssued a declslon 1n the appeal of a dis t
court declslon.
The Court held the hazard communlcatlon standard
preempted the New Jersey nghtitoiKnow law as 1: applled to manufacturers.
In January of 1935, Judge chklnson Debevolse rendered the preemptlon
declslon 1n New Jersey State Chamber of Commerce v, Hughey.
The Court of
Appeals afflmed 1n part and reversed 1n part, the dlstrlct court
declslon.
The Court held:
117 the hazard communlcatlon standard preempt: the New Jersey law as 1:
pertalns m protectlon of employee health safety 1n the manufacturlng
sector;
(27 there 15 no preemptlon 1nsofar as the New Jersey law applies to
employers outslde the manufacturlng sector or 1nsofar as 1: requlres
1dent1£1catlon and reportlng of envlronmental hazards;
137 the Court remanded to the dlstrlct court the questlon of whether
the envlronmental hazard labellng requlrements are subject to 1mplled
preemptlon; and
147 upheld the New Jersey law's trade secret of protectlon.
The Court 551d 1:: holdlng 1n Unlted Steelworkers v. Auchter compels
a rullng that the hazard communlcatlon standard preempt: the New Jersey
law Hlth respect to dlsclosure to employees 1n the manufacturlng sector.
The questlon left unresolved by the Steelworkers declslon 15 to what
extent the other provlslons of the New Jersey law are preempted by the
hazard communlcatlon standard.
The Court also 531d other provlslons could be preempted under the
doctrlne of 1mplled preemptlon: m 15 1: 15 1mposslble to comply mm
Page
24
cm 039529
both federal and state requlrements, or 127
Congresslonal puzpose.
15 enforcement will thwart
The questlons remanded to the dlstrlct court have not yet been
answered.
Although partles have held a pretrlal conference, a declslon on
the lssue of envlronmental labellng requlrements 15 not expected 1n the
near future.
Communlty Awareness and Emergency Response
Regulatory Developments and Response
on December 17, 1935, the Envlronmental Protectlon Agency offlclally
released 1:: "Chemlcal Emergency Preparedness Program Interlm Guldance"
Along Hlth the guldance document, EPA released a 115: of 402
acutely toxlc chemlcals and chemlcal proflles.
Th1: Voluntary program 15
"1ntended to help local communltles become aware of any acutely toxlc
chemlcals 1n thelr area and prepare to respond to any accldental release
of such chemlcals 1nto the alr." The agency will accept wrltten comments
on the amp for a an day perlod.
cm task groups will revlew the package
and comment to EPA.
mule developmg thls program, the agency 1nv1ted comments and advlce
from CMA and others.
EPA 1ncluded many of CMA'S suggestlons.
The overall
objectlves of the program are compatlble mm CARR and will complement the
chemlcal 1ndustry's efforts by helplng us unplement our program,
1n fact:
the agency guldance document speclflcally descrlbes the CAER program and
looks to 1: as the 1ndustry's way of 1mprov1ng communlty contlngency
plannlng.
am has dlstrlbuted the guldance document, 115: of chemlcals
"and chemlcal proflles to company CARR coordlnators.
on November 15, 1935, CMA partlclpated 1n 3 natlonal teleconference
Hlth EPA, the Federal Emergency Management Agency and other federal
agencles.
The purpose of the teleconference was to descrlbe EPA'S amp,
CMA'S CARR and other emergency response programs and to show how they can
work cooperatlvely.
Pollcy Development and Program Actlvlty
on November 12, 1935, CMA Presldent Roland sent a letter to executlve
contacts of CMA member flrms.
Roland asked the executlve contacts to
do two thlngs.
Flrst to check Hlth thelr CAER coordlnator to assure that
they have submltted initial mllestone reports to CMA.
At that time, only
93 of the 174 partlclpatlng companles had reported.
Second, he asked the
contacts to support thelr CAER coordlnators and plant managers by maklng
sure they have the resources to make the program successful.
Also. he
recommended that the executlve contacts make CAER a part of thelr
companles' operatlng procedures.
To data, 119 companles out of 174
Page
25
cm 039529
partlclpatlng 1n the program have reported.
Those companles have selected
over 1,100 sltes to partlclpate 1n CAER.
Over 50% of those sltes have
1n1tlated communlty coordlnatlng groups.
The CARR Task Group 15 coordlnatlng the program's luvplementatlon Hlth
allled trade assoclatlons and others to broaden threat support for mm.
In addltlon m meetlng Hlth the Councll of Chemlcal Assoclatlons,
presentatlons were made to:
the Natlonal Assoclatlon of Chemlcal
Dlstrlbutors. the Chlorlne Instltute, the Chemlcal Marketlng Research
Assoclatlon, the Chamber of Commerce, and the Amerlcan Petroleum
Instltute.
Future meetlngs Hill 1nclude the Synthetlc Drganlc Chemlcal
Manufacturers Assoclatlon. the Chemlcal Speclaltles Manufacturers
Assoclatlon, the Natlonal Paint and Coatlngs Assoclatlon, and the Natlonal
Assoclatlon of Towns and Townshlps.
Internatlonal Aspects
World Envlronment Center.
The dlalogue between the Internatlonal
Affalrs Group and the World Envlronment Center contlnues as to how best to
translate the CAER document 1nto usable texts for mum World country
applicatlons.
The ma has dlscussed the posslblllty of worklng mm Latln
Amerlcan chemlcal 1ndustry assoclatlons to provlde a Spanlsh translatlon
of CAER for Latln Amerlcan use.
Outreach Actlvlty
Several state chemlcal organlzatlons worklng mm cm have held CAER
workshops;
Florlda, Callfornla, Dhlo and New Jersey have put on workshops
that have focused on local luvplementatlon of CAER.
These workshops have
typlcally 1ncluded local 1ndustry and emergency response offlclals who
dlscussed CARR case hlstorles.
The Texas and Michigan chemlcal 1ndustry
counclls have scheduled CAER workshops for early 1935.
Communlcatlons
The 35*page brleflng package, "One Year After Bhopal" , was
dlstrlbuted m a mailing 115: of 1000.
The package revlews 1ndustry
initiatives to unprove process safety, transportatlon safety, emergency
preparedness and communlty awareness of chemlcal rlsks and hazards.
An update on the progress of the 1ndustry on programs announced last
Aprll 7 CARR and Name 7 was sent to all edltorlal board contacts 1n
antlclpatlon of posslble edltorlals concernlng a one year Bhopal
annlversary.
Materlal went to nearly 200 wrlters.
Chemlcal Product Dlstrlbutlon Advocacy
Congresslonal Developments and Response
Rage
25
cm 039530
Hazardous Materlals Transportatlon.
Reauthorlzatlon of the Hazardous
Materlals Transportatlon Act 15 galnlng momentum Within Congress.
Several
groups representlng shipper, carrler, emergency response, and publlc
1nterests are all gearlng thelr actlvltles towards generatlng Significant
changes to the exlstlng leglslatlon.
Three prlmary groups have emerged:
the Offlce of Technology Assessment's Hazardous Materlals Commlttee; the
DDT'S Hazardous Materlals Transportatlon Advlsory Commlttee; and the
Hazardous Materlals Coalltlon.
cm 1: represented on all three groups.
cm 15 concerned about the push to establlsh a federal fund for
emergency response training and equlpment.
Local authorltles are
generally the flrst on the scene of transportatlon accldents 1nvolv1ng
hazardous products.
Thelr representatlves clalm that 1ndustry fundlng 15
necessary to ensure that they are adequately equipped and tralned to
properly respond to such emergencles.
The chemlcal 1ndustry has countered
Hlth extenslve Voluntary resources to meet thls need.
am has strongly supported the recommendatlons calllng for regulatory
conslstency among federal, state and local authorltles over the
transportatlon of hazardous materlals.
Th1: natlonal regulatory
conslstency, coupled Hlth 1ncreased enforcement, will contrlbute greatly
towards enhanclng hazardous materlal transportatlon safety.
1: Will also
prove economlcal to 1ndustry 1n that compllance Hlth only a smgle set of
requlrements would be requlred.
The flrst reauthorlzatlon b111, 3.x.
3779, sponsored by
Representatlve Gonzales, has been referred jolntly m the House Commlttees
on Publlc works and Transportatlon, Energy and Commerce, and Ways and
Means.
1: represents the worst case scenarlo.
The mu would establlsh a
,federal Emergency Response Fund flnanced by 1ndustry, and advanced
notlflcatlon of shlpment, reglstratlon and routlng.
mule referenclng
unlfomlty of regulatlons, the mu does not expllcltly call for unlfom
federal. state and local transportatlon regulatlons.
cm 15 detemlnlng
whether thls mu Hill recelve favorable conslderatlon 1n Congress, and
will act accordlngly.
Water Resources Development Act.
cm submltted detalled comments to
Congress on the provlslons of the Water Resources Development Act, 5.1557,
regardlng the 1mposltlon of an ad Valorem tax on 1mports and exports.
Speclflcally, CMA called for Congress to impose a cap on the tax for all
exports and shlpments between v.5.
ports.
Further. CMA urged Congress to
avold double taxatlon for cargo unloaded and reloaded onto a Vessel at the
same harbor
Conrall Acqulsltlon.
cm formally notlfled Congress that 1: supports
the transfer of Conrall m the publlc sector.
cm expressed the posltlon
that between the exlstlng sale optlons, Morgan Stanley and Norfolk
Southern, the publlc offerlng advanced by the Morgan Stanley group comes
Page
27
cm 039531
closest to satlsfylng the chemlcal 1ndustry's concerns, provlded Conrall
operates conslstent mm the language and Spirit of the new Ex Parts 445
rules of the me that promote rallitoirall Competltlon.
cm expllcltly opposed the transfer of Conrall m a major Eastern
Rallroad.
Such actlon would reduce rallitoirall competltlon to an
unacceptable level.
Shipping Act of 1934.
cm 15 contlnulng to seek an amendment to the
Shipping Act of 1994 that would exclude all chemlcal parcel tankers from
the antltrust exemptlon to set rates and deslgnate markets.
Th1: would
ellmlnate Cassibyicase lltlgatlon on carrler actlon as was the case mm
the recent declslon 1n Andlno/Flota.
(See Chemlcal Parcel Tankers 1n
Sectlon J.57
Cargo Liability 31115.
cm 15 developmg a posltlon to support
leglslatlon that would modlfy ocean cargo liability laws.
cm favors
clarlfylng llablllty 11mm: so that they apply to packaged unlts Hlthln a
contalner. not to the 407mm Contalner.
am also favors leglslatlon
based on the Hamburg Rules Since they encourage shlp owners to take proper
care of cargo.
Regulatory Developments and Response
am 195.
A new Work Group has been conned m coordlnate efforts 1n
complylng mm thls flnal DDT rule pertaining to the transportatlon of
chemlcals that pose poison 1nhalatlon hazards.
Speclflc concerns the Work
Group will address 1nclude:
types of packlngs that can be used to
transport these materlals; 1nformatlon requlred by DOT to obtaln approval
for these packaglngs; short acute toxlclty data; and the determlnatlon of
whlch materlals need addltlonal toxlclty testlng.
The work group will
also explore the feaslblllty of sharlng the cost of thls testlng.
R311 To R311 Competltlon.
The Interstate Commerce Commlsslon has
publlshed 1:: new rules pertaining to competitive access of rallroads to
shipping facilities.
These new rules reflect the major polnts agreed to
and submltted by cm and the r311 1ndustry.
In the flrst test of the Commlsslon's new rules. the Mldtec Case has
been reopened.
1: will address the Use of Termlnal Facllltles and
Reclprocal Sultchlng arrangements by a competlng rallroad.
To ensure the
chemlcal 1ndustry's concerns are made a part of the record 1n thls
proceedlng, CMA has petltloned the Commlsslon for leave to 1ntervene.
Conrall Acqulsltlon.
Norfolk Southern presented the federal
government mm a revlsed dlvestlture plan for the Conrall system.
Followlng careful analysls of thls new plan, CMA reafflrmed 1:: support
for the publlc offerlng proposal presented by the Morgan Stanley
1nvestment group.
CMA'S support for the publlc offerlng, as belng the
Page
29
cm 039532
only exlstlng proposal that would malntaln r511 competltlon 1n the
Northeast reglon of the country, was conveyed to DDT Secretary Dole and
Congress on December 4, 1935.
amendments to Cargo Tank Speclflcatlons.
In response to the
Department of Transportatlon's proposed new speclflcatlons for cargo
tanks. CMA has formed a work group to submlt an unpact statement.
The
proposed requlrements call for Significant changes 1n the manufacture,
operatlon. malntenanCE. repalr and requallflcatlon of all speclflcatlon
cargo tanks used to transport bulk shlpments of chemlcals and other
hazardous materlals by hlghway.
Brazll Cargo Reservatlon.
The Unlted States has agreed Hlth Brazll
to renew for one year thelr bllateral agreement that condones Brazlllan
laws requlrlng nearly an percent of v.5.
exports and 1mports m be
transported on hlghiprlced Brazlllan or v.5.
flag Vessels.
Some mlnor
modlflcatlons favorlng shlppers were made to the bllateral agreement.
Most slgnlflcantly, the v.5.
told the Brazlllans that the antlcompetltlve
nature of the Brazlllan cargo reservatlon laws must be slgnlflcantly
llberallzed or the agreement will not be renewed agaln next year.
cm
staff attended the negotlatlons as a shipper observer.
am will contlnue
to seek llberallzatlon of the cargo reservatlon system over the next year.
Emergency Response Training and Equlpment.
In an effort to develop
detalled 1nformatlon showlng the amount of training and equlpment the
chemlcal 1ndustry 15 maklng avaliable to emergency responders, the
Dlstrlbutlon Commlttee 15 developmg a member company questlonnalre.
Th1:
1nformatlon will prove partlcularly useful 1n the reauthorlzatlon hearlngs
for the Hazardous Materlals Transportatlon Act.
Tank Truck Corroslon.
Dlscusslons are contlnulng Hlth tank truck
operators over the development of an educatlonal program deslgned to
reduce premature deterloratlon of tank trucks due to corroslon.
Rates and Compensatlon
Tank Car Compensatlon.
The Commlsslon asked the Joint Negotlatlng
Commlttee to address three matters mm respect to the prescrlptlon of a
natlonal tank car mlleage allowance system.
These matters were:
the
market senslblllty of the proposed system; quantlflcatlon that the new
formula will reduce the gap 1n allowances between older and newer cars;
and. a comparlson of the allowances paid under the proposed formula, the
1979 formula and the interim formula.
These comments were submltted on
November 4, 1935.
Dbjectlon to these comments were expressed by wFIx and
CF Industrles.
cm jolned the other car provlders and ﬁlled a response to
the objectlons.
cm 15 conslderlng supportlng the formatlon of a negotlatlng group to
represent all the 1nterested car provlders.
Page
29
cm 039533
thlgatlon and Related Legal Actlvltles
Chemlcal Parcel Tankers.
cm recently won a case before an
admlnlstratlve law judge of the Federal Marltlme Commlsslon.
The judge
declded that two carrlers 1n the US/Columblan trade should not be given
antltrust 1mmun1ty to establlsh a jolnt chemlcal parcel tanker operatlon.
Assumlng the case 15 not reversed on appeal, 1: will serve as a strong
precedent that chemlcal parcel tankers may not collectlvely set rates or
allocate markets.
cm, whlch ﬁlled extenslve brlefs before the
admlnlstratlve law judge, will ﬁlls a brlef 1n the appeal 1n order to
protect the Victory.
cm 15 also seeklng an amendment to the Shipping Act
of 1994 whlch would prohibit rate settlng and market allocatlon by
chemlcal parcel tankers.
Natlonal Chemlcal Response and 1nfomatlon Center (NCRIC)
All elements of the Natlonal Chemlcal Response and Informatlon Center
were on llne by the end of December.
Although much work remalns to be
done to 1nsure maxlmum partlclpatlon by the membershlp and use by the
publlc, the center was completed on schedule.
cammmc
cammmc closed out 1995 Hlth a 17:1 1ncrease 1n actlvlty over 1994
levels.
A total of 35,959 calls were handled, of whlch 7,400 were
emergency related; noniemergency calls totaled 25,519.
Emergency related
calls recelved averaged 517 per month.
Noniemergency calls recelved are
1n excess of 2,200 per month.
Medlcal emergencles are showlng a slow but steady 1ncrease Since cm
offlclally announced that cammm would offer asslstance m physlclans
seeklng treatment 1nfomatlon.
Referrals to the Chemlcal Referral Center (cum are off to a slow
start Since cm: was actlvated 27 December. but thls 1: expected to
1ncrease Significantly as we enter our busy perlod 1n early spring.
CHEMNET
The CHEMNET program began operatlon on November 1, 1935.
At that
time we had a membershlp of 55.
Since that time we have added another 3
members.
Our current totals are 59 members, of whlch 35 are partlclpants
and 24 are subscrlbers.
The partlclpants 1n the camum program have deslgnated 121 emergency
response teams to be a part of the system.
The program now 1ncludes three
contractors that are avaliable to the membershlp.
The contractors have 29
Page
an
cm 039534
teams.
In comblnatlon the system has ISO teams that are located 1n 35
states.
Th1: represents a Very Significant resource to respond to serlous
transportatlon 1nc1dents.
Durlng the months of November and December, we used the camum system
ones.
In that case a contractor, 0.3.
Materlals. responded to an event
because the shipper could not reach the scene 1n 3 reasonable amount of
tune.
We expect use of the program to grow as the membershlp has a better
understandlng of the resources 1: provldes.
To expedlte that
understandlng we have scheduled a workshop on March 12, 1935, 1n
Washlngton, u.c., m provlde detalls on the operatlon m the membershlp.
Chemlcal Referral Center
on December 27, 1935, the.Chem1cal Referral Center (cum began
recelvlng noniemergency health and safety chemlcal 1nformatlon inquiries
from the publlc on 1:5 "300" tollifree number.
These calls are referred
to the deslgnated contact at the company that manufactures the product 1n
questlon.
To data, 119 chemlcal companles 199 are cm members) have
provlded the CR: Hlth the company contact and product 1nfomatlon whlch
are requlred for partlclpatlon 1n thls servlce.
The Center's chemlcal
1ndex currently contalns proflles on over 20,000 products.
Th1: number
will rapldly 1ncrease as partlclpatlng companles send the cm: the
requested 1nfomatlon.
Emergency Response Training
Flrst Responder Training Program.
The Videotape training program for
flrst responders, "Flrst on The Scene", 15 completed and belng
dlstrlbuted.
The Videotape 15 31 mlnutes long and 1ncludes a brochure and
dlscusslon gulde'.
The followlng Elva key polnts are stressed 1n the
program:
approach the scene cautlously; 1dentlfy the hazards; secure the
scene; obtaln help 1n handllng the 1nc1dent; and assure safe slte entry.
The objectlve of the program 15 to reduce injuries and envlronmental
damages and m 1nsure that flrst responders know where to get help 1n
handllng the problem.
There are no restrlctlons on reproduclng the Videotape.
Copies of the tape or sells them at a cost.
cm loans
A copy of the training program has been donated to each of the ten
FEMA reglons and the Natlonal Fire Academy.
Copies are also bemg
dlstrlbuted m the State flre and pollce 1nstructors.
Lendlng lerary.
The lendlng llbrary of audiowlsual training 31d:
for emergency response personnel has become an extremely successful
Page
31
cm 039535
program.
Requests to borrow the programs have been recelved from
emergency response personnel and state agencles from all over the Unlted
States.
10,000 Copies of the brochure 115mm; the programs have been
dlstrlbuted.
Addltlonal Copies of some programs purchased were to meet
all requests.
Three new programs have been added to the llbrary.
A new
brochure. bemg prlnted, should be avaliable 1n a few weeks.
Recommended Tems for Personal Protectlve Equlpment.
Th1: technlcal
bulletln 15 now avaliable for dlstrlbutlon.
The booklet was developed to
encourage the use of conslstent termlnology by those who prepare
guldellnes for emergency responders and to deflne these terms for
emergency response personnel.
One of the motlvatlng reasons for preparlng the document was the
amblguous use of commonly used terms such as "Full Protectlve Clothlng...
and "Speclal Protectlve Clothlng".
Full Protectlve Clothlng could mean
flreflghters' bunker gear/turnout gear or encapsulatlng chemlcal sluts,
dependlng on who prepared the guldance materlal.
"Speclal Protectlve
Clothlng:
could be encapsulatlng chemlcal sluts or a "splash sult".
Copies of the bulletln have been sent to CMA members urging them to
use these terms when preparlng Materlal Safety Data Sheets or guldance
1nformatlon for emergency response personnel.
cammmc Workshops.
A cammmc Emergency Response Team Workshop will
be held 1n Moblle. Alabama on February 25725, 1935.
Th1: Will be the 30th
workshop to be sponsored by gamma Since the flrst one was presented 1n
1979.
Nearly 3,700 people from the chemlcal, carrler and emergency
response communltles have recelved training for oniscene handllng of
chemlcal emergencles through these workshops.
Communlcatlons
The Reglonal Communlcatlons Dlvlslon 15 produclng a leaflet for the
Chemlcal Referral Center and an overall booklet for mum.
Reglonal Communlcatlons has approved a matchlng grant to enable the
Dhlo Chemlcal Councll to produce a £11m on flrst responder training that
Will be speclflc to ohm.
Medla training was provlded for member company representatlves who
will partlclpate 1n upcomlng medla tours on the Natlonal Chemlcal Response
and Informatlon Center.
Energy and Petrochemlcal Feedstock:
Regulatory Developments and Response
Page
32
cm 039535
FERC Order No. 435 on Interstate Natural Gas Transportatlon.
on
October 9, 1935, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commlsslon (FERQ lssued a
rule on 1nterstate natural gas transportatlon that adopted many CMA
recommendatlons.
The rule authorlzes selcqmplemennng, nondlscrlmlnatory
1nterstate transportatlon servlces.
Both mm and 1nterrupt1ble servlces
must be offered by partlclpatlng 1nterstate pipellnes.
Also. reservatlon
fees for sum servlces are permltted.
The FERC subsequently modlfled the rule so that pipelines must permlt
dlstrlbutlon company customers to reduce thelr exlstlng sales demand by up
to 25% per year over Elva years.
The modlfled rule (FERC Order 435m also
permltted certaln transportatlon programs to contlnue untll February 15.
Thus far, most pipelines have been unwllllng to transport gas under
the new rules.
The Justlce Department 15 investigating complalnts that
pipelines have colluded 1n refuslng to carry gas under those terms.
FERC Proposed Rules on Natural Gas Prlclng.
cm and other 1ndustrlal
consumers urged the FERC not to unplement a proposed block bllllng
mechanlsm for 1nterstate pipeline sales.
on December 11, 1935, CMA
testlfled before the FERC and presented results of an economlc unpact
study on the proposed block mum; rule.
cm 531d the cost of the rule
to Amerlcan 1ndustry would be 51.9 bllllon per year, and the annual cost
to the chemlcal 1ndustry alone would be approxlmately $500 million.
Both the chemlcal 1ndustry and 1ndustry 1n general, rely
substantlally on gas purchased dlrectly from producers.
For example, the
chemlcal 1ndustry purchases 59% of 1:: natural gas from sources other than
conventlonal pipeline system supply.
The study, done for CMA by Foster
Assoclates, predlcts the proposed pricing rule would ralse the price of
gas belng purchased dlrectly from producers.
Also. 1ndustrlal users
buylng 1nterstate gas could be allocated hlgher gas costs.
The FERC proposal also restrlcts pipeline sales of lowicost gas to
exlstlng customers.
Th1: Hill 1ncrease pressure on both local
dlstrlbutlon companles (LDC57 and endiusers to purchase gas dlrectly from
producers. leadlng to a shlft away from conventlonal pipeline system
supply.
The proposed rule nulllfles the potentlal advantages of 1ncreased
competltlon through the expedlted certlflcate process.
1: reduces
p1pellne*to*p1pellne Competltlon, and encourages bypass of tradltlonal
pipeline system supply sources.
The study also 1nd1cates the FERC proposal would 1ncrease spot sales,
threat purchases, and tradltlonal pipeline purchases.
1: would add
pressure on LDCS and endiusers to buy dlrectly from producers Since
pipeline competltlon Will be restrlcted to hlgheriprlced gas.
Th1: Hill
1ncrease the demand for spot or dlrectipurchase gas.
Page
33
cm 039537
In addltlon. cm noted that Since dlrectipurchase gas 1: 1n
competltlon mm systemisupply gas, the marglnal cost of systemisupply gas
will be hlgher.
The Calling on dlrectipurchase prices will be ralsed by
as much as 92 cents per mllllon Btu.
Proposed Rules on old Gas Prlclng.
The FERC block bllllng proposal
falls to deal mm the baslc problem of contlnulng price controls that
prevent maxlmum efflclent development and use of the lowest cost "old gas"
resource base. and cm contlnues to advocate leglslatlon to deregulate
wellhead Ceiling prlces, and to remove market restralnts.
1: appears that
some CMA goals may be achleved through regulatory recom proposals offered
recently by the Department of Energy mm the support of the Justlce
Department.
on November 19, DOE proposed a rule for flnal actlon by the
FERC that makes all old gas ellglble for a hlgher "just and reasonable
prlce", and that would establlsh lhcentlve prices for old gas.
on December 20, the FERC lssues a schedule for the notlce of proposed
rulemaklng (Docket RM 95737.
cm 15 preparlng wrltten comments that are
due February 25.
A publlc conference will be announced at a later date.
The FERC 15 requestlng comments on:
legal authorlty to adopt the
proposal. the 1nterirelatlonsh1p mm the block bllllng proposal rule, and
the economc and market unpacts of raising oldigas prlces.
Taxatlon
Congresslonal Developments and Response
Presldent Reagan's last mlnute 1nterventlon provlded the margln of
Vlctory as the House passed the Hays and Means tax mu 3.x. 3939.
Prevlously, a majorlty of 223 Republlcans and conservatlve Democrats had
rejected the Commlttee's efforts to brlng the mu m a Vote on the House
Floor.
After the Presldent 1ntervenEd. the House reversed 1tself on the
rule of procedure 259 m 153, and passed the mm by Volce Vote.
Although 3.x. 3939 dlffers slgnlflcantly from the proposal outllned
by Presldent Reagan on May 29, the mu would nonetheless have a serlous
and adverse 1mpact on the chemlcal 1ndustry.
Key features of the
Bonsaipassed mu 1nclude:
commune TAX
RATES
DEPRECIATIDN
o In General
IMPACT 0N CHEMICAL
INDUSTRY
35 percent flat rate;
graduated rates for
small busmesses
Rate reductlon does not offset
loss of capltal fomatlon
1ncent1ves
New system:
7*year
recovery of chemlcal
Cost:
$400 mllllon/year
Page
34
cm 039539
equlpment costs; 200
percent decllnlng
balance depreclatlon
avallable.
o Recapture
No addltlonal recapture
INVESTMENT TAX
CREDIT
Repeal
Cost;
51 bllllon/year
MINIMUM TAX
25 percent alternatlve
tax mposed on tax
preferences 1n excess
of regular tax liability
Cost:
$500 mllllon/year
Extend 1m: tax credlt
at 20 percent; restrlct
quallfylng R&D expenses
as under 3.x. 1199
Value;
5an mllllon/year
(down from 5300 mllllon/year7
o Allocatlon of
1m: Expenses to
Forelgn Source
Income
No provlslon.
Statutory moratorlum of
Treasury allocatlon
Rules explred 12731795
Cost;
0 Forelgn
Tax Credlt
Retaln overall 11mm,
tlon on forelgn tax
credlt mm separate
llmltatlons for passlve,
flnanclal and shlpplng
1ncome; impose compari
ability rules for pay*
ments 1nilleuiof taxes.
Cost:
less restrlctlvethan Presldentls proposal,
but decreases utility of
forelgn tax credlt substani
tlally to prevent double
taxatlon.
0 Source Rules
for Sales of
Property
Substltute "Substance
of Sale" for "Tltle
Passage" test
Cost: would have serlous
and unpredlctable impact,
especlally unsettllng
consequences 1n the tax
treatment of v.5. Exports.
0 Allocatlon of
Interest
Expenses
Requlre allocatlon of
all expenses among all
members of afflllated
group
Cost:
for corporatlons
Hlth Significant forelgn
operatlons, proposal
would slgnlflcantly reduce
current deductlon of expenses
agalnst v.5. 1ncome
RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT
EXPENSES
o 25 Percent
1m: Tax Credlt
sann mllllon/year
Page
35
cm 039539
0 Sectlon 935
Possesslons
Credlt
Retaln Sec. 935 credit,
tlghten actlve trade or
busmess trust and costsharlng payment rules.
Cost:
restrlctlons on use
of Sec. 935 Credit could
render manufacturlng operatlons marglnal 1n Puerto
Rico
1: should be noted that House passage of the tax mm was attalned
after Presldent Reagan had furnlshed a letter to Congressman Kemp (Rrwyy
1n whlch he promlsed to Veto "unacceptable" tax leglslatlon that does not
1ncrease the 1nd1v1dual personal exemptlon to 52mm, provlde for busmess
capltal formatlon, and assure a tax rate structure no hlgher than the
Admlnlstratlon's orlglnal proposal.
Each would Significantly 1ncrease the
blll's revenue cost and would requlre substantlal addltlonal offsettlng
revenue provlslons.
Senator Bob Packwood miom has 1nd1cated that the Senate Flnance
Commlttee Hill begln 1:5 revlew of 3.x. 3939 1n early February.
Moreover. Senator Packwood has expressed concern over the ability to 61nd
new revenue sources to'offset proposed Admlnlstratlon changes 1n the
Bonsaipassed mu.
Thus. the prospects are doubtful that the Flnance
Commlttee will develop an early alternatlve to the House mu before the
July 4th Congresslonal recess.
cm strongly opposes the provlslons of 3.x. 3939 that would
substantlally 1ncrease busmess tax costs, partlcularly of capltal
1ntenslve 1ndustr1es and of those that engage 1n Significant 1nternatlonal
trade.
A number of leadlng trade organlzatlons have jolned 1n opposltlon
to these provlslons.
am has developed an onigolng tax leglslatlve work
plan and 15 coordlnatlng 1:5 actlvltles Hlth allled busmess groups.
Plant Management and Deslgn (Englneerlng Codes and Standards)
Regulatlons, Standards. Codes and Technology
Forum on Safety and Rellablllty Improvement.
The Inspectlon and
Englneerlng Advlsory Commlttee's Malntenance Task Group will meet late
January to make further preparatlons for the CMA forum on safety and
rellablllty unprovement through appllcatlon of advanced 1nspectlon and
malntenance technlques.
Th1: forum will emphaslze those technlques that
dlrectly 1nfluence safety of plant and communlty.
Forum on Process Computers.
The EAC Process Control Task Group met
December 11 m reflne the program and arrangements for the Flfth cmv
Process Computer Users Forum to be held May 577, 1935.
Th1: forum will
emphaslze safety aspects of control systems deslgn and operatlon.
Codes.
cm representatlves attended the December 1995 Natlonal
Electrlcal Code panel meetlngs to dlscuss and Vote on actlons taken durlng
Page
35
cm 039540
the January 1995 panel meetlngs.
cm submltted 114 proposals for revlslon
of the 1994 code durlng the fall of 1934, and submltted as comments durlng
the publlc revlew perlod.
The Electrlcal Codes and Standards Task Group
will meet 1n Atlanta next May to prepare for floor actlon on the 1997 code
before 1:: adoptlon at the NFPA Annaul Meetlng.
Safety and costs are the
lssues 1nvolved.
Standards.
The commlttee prepared cm posltlons on 17 API, mm,
NEMA. NFPA. and UL standards proposed for adoptlon as Amerlcan Natlonal
Standards.
These standards cover storage tanks, test procedures,
electrlcal equlpment 1n hazardous atmospheres, motors, generators,
1n5ulatlon, condult. and controls.
As mm codes. safety and costs are
the lssues 1nvolved.
Internatlonal Trade/Internatlonal Competltlveness
Congresslonal Developments and Response
Dmnlbus Trade 3111.
The last Congress passed the Trade and Tarlff Act
of 1994 1n October 1934.
Although thls act was the flrst omnlbus trade
mu m be passed 1n Elva years, 1: addressed mostly nonicontroverslal
lssues of 1nternatlonal trade.
Since the passage of the law, the already
large v.5. forelgn trade deficit has swelled to record levels and
probably reached 914D bllllon 1n 1935.
The current Congress 15 maklng a
concerted effort to address the natlon's growlng forelgn trade problem and
actlon on a new piece of omnlbus trade leglslatlon can be expected early
1n the sesslon.
Senator Danforth mimm 1ntroduced the Trade Enhancement Ash (5.
The mu contalns multlple tltles whlch among other toplcs, deals
'wlth forelgn targetlng, changes to trade remedy laws, the protectlon of
1ntellectual property rlghts and authorlzatlon for a new round of
multklateral trade negotlatlons.
am already has an approved posltlon on
1ntellectual property rlghts and the CMA Board 15 belng asked to address
tarlff cuttlng 1n the MTN at 1:: January 27729 meetlng.
on the House 51dE, the lssue of tax reform prevented the House Ways
and Means Commlttee from addresslng the trade lssue durlng the flrst
sesslon.
1: 1: expected that trade will be one of 1:: top prlorlty lssues
for the second sesslon.
Rep. Dan Rostenkowskl misirm has already sent
a confldentlal memorandum to all commlttee members calllng for a retreat
early 1n 1995 to deal mm 1nternatlonal trade lssues.
Such a retreat
was used last fall by the chalman to get the ways and Means Commlttee
started on 1:: tax reform package.
The House Energy and Commerce
CommlttEE, chalred by Representatlve John mngen (Dilarmly, contlnues to
push for jurlsdlctlon on trade matters and the commlttee has already
proposed a llmlted scope trade package.
Page
37
cm 039541
CMA'S Internatlonal Trade Commlttee 15 currently preparlng to address
trade leglslatlon 1n both houses as 1: develops.
Wherever posslble thls
Will be done through the ocrm coalltlon.
Internatlonal Negotlatlons/Agreements
Multklateral Trade Negotlatlon
Last January 1n his State of the
vmon Address, Presldent Reagan called for authorlty to enter 1nto
dlscusslons leadlng toward a new round of Multklateral Trade Negotlatlons
A request for such authorlty 15 provlded 1n Senator Danforth's
The House will conslder the same grantlng of bargalnlng authorlty
early 1n the year.
The cm Internatlonal Trade Commlttee 15 recommendlng
that the Board adopt a posltlon on the MTN at 1:: January 27729 meetlng.
The recommended CMA pollcy conslsts of a statement of prlnclples to be
consldered by the v.5.
negotlators partlclpatlng 1n an MTN.
The proposed
posltlon states that an MTN should focus on the lssues of forelgn market
access. 1nvestment, and dlspute settlement procedures for Vlolatlon of
1nternatlonal tradlng rules.
Chemlcal tarlff cuttlng: should be done on a
selectlve basls mm unport sensltlve products exempted where justlfled.
Pollcy Development and Economlc Analysls
U.S./Canada Ellateral Free Trade Agreement.
The Trade and Tarlff
Act (TTA7 of 1994 authorlzes the Presldent. upon proper notlce to the
Congress, to enter 1nto dlscusslons Hlth other countrles whlch could lead
to a bllateral trade agreement.
Much prellmlnary work has been done over
the last few years both 1n the Unlted States and Canada 1n preparatlon for
such an agreement.
Th1: 1ncludes dlscusslons between CMA'S Internatlonal
Trade Commlttee and the Canadlan Chemlcal Producers Assoclatlon Trade
Commlttee as well as studles by approprlate agencles of both countrles'
governments.
on December 10, 1935, Presldent Reagan fomally notlfled the Congress
of ms 1ntent to enter 1nto negotlatlons mm the Canadlan government.
315 actlon came as a result of a request from the Canadlan government for
such negotlatlons whlch 15 one of the requlrements stlpulated by the TTA.
CMA'S membershlp has been 1nfomed of all opportunltles for 1nput
1nto the government's hearlngs and studles on thls issue whlch have
already been conducted.
Also. the am Board has approved a posltlon on a
U.S./Canada agreement whlch has been well recelved by offlclals at the
Offlce of the v.5. Trade Representatlve and the Department of Commerce.
Developments Will be monltored closely and further actlon taken as
approprlate.
Communlcatlons
Page
39
cm 039542
The annual Economlc Erleflng for busm e55 reporters focussed on the
unpact of 1nternatlonal competltlon on the 1ndustry's ability to pass of
the hlgh cost of domestlc envlronmental costs.
Twenty reporters attended
the brleflng.
Internatlonal Regulatory Issues
(Health. Safety and Envuonmenm
Internatlonal Drganlzatlons
ILD Meetlng on Industrlal Hazards.
on October 15721, 1935, the
Internatlonal Affalrs Group (may partlclpated 1n the Internatlonal Labour
Drganlzatlon 1mm "Trlpartlte Ad Hoc Meetlng of Speclal Consultants on
Methods of Preventlon of Major Hazards 1n Industry." Th1: meetlng was held
1n Geneva, Swltzerland.
The purpose of the meetlng was to develop the necessary steps to
unprove safety and health 1n the productlon and storage of dangerous
substances and to develop guldellnes or an 1nternatlonal conventlon
onmajor 1ndustrlal hazard control and emergency response systems.
European pressure for 1nternatlonal adoptlon of the "Seveso Dlrectlve" on
thls subject was deflected by v.5.
and mum World partlclpants.
The
meetlng dld not result 1n the compllatlon or adoptlon of 1nternatlonal
guldellnes.
However. contlnued Vigilance 15 necessary to ensure that ILD
followiupactlons do not unduly restrlct the forelgn operatlons of the v.5.
chemlcal 1ndustry.
UNCTC/UN'EP Semlnar on Industrlal Process Safety and Hazards.
After
conslderable debatE, the ma declded not to partlclpate 1n the jolnt mu.
Centre on Transnatlonal Cozporatlons (UNCTC7 and mu.
Envlronment
Programme 1mm?) December, 1935, Semlnar on Envlronmental Management of
Industrlal Process Safety and Hazards.
We belleved that llttle progress
would be made at the Semlnar because of the Wide range of compllcated
technlcal. legal, and pollcy lssues ralsed 1n the Agenda and Overvlew
Papers and the anuqndusmy blases reflected 1n these documents.
ms
also objected to the strlctly chemlcal 1ndustry focus of the Semlnar and
expressed concern about dupllcatlon of efforts mm other 1nternatlonal
organlzatlons.
ms will, however. follow the post’semlnar developments at
UNCTC/UN'EP for thelr posslble unpact on the chemlcal 1ndustry.
Subsequent
to our decllnlng to partlclpate, the v.5.
Government, the Internatlonal
Chamber of Commerce 11cm. and the European Councll of Chemlcal
Manufacturers' Federatlons (amvrcy also refused to attend.
omu Developments.
In November. 1935, ms submltted comments to EPA
and the State Department on new developments 1n the Drganlzatlon for
Economlc Cooperatlon and Development 10mm ChemlcalsProgramme and on
papers to be consldered at Meetlngs of the 0mm Envlronment Commlttee and
Chemlcals Group/Management Commlttee.
ms also commented on proposed
Page
cm 039543
agenda ltems for the upcomlng 0mm mghaevel (Envlronmental Mlnlster
Meeungv, antlclpated m be held 1n late lessor early 1937.
Lee Thomas.
EPA Admlnlstrator. 1: expected to attend.
In addltlon m the examlnatlon of the adequacy of
exlstlng chemlcals, the 0mm plans to examlne the need
anlmal testlng at thls meetlng.
The ma has conned an
examlne the annual testlng questlon, whlch will report
to ma sometlme 1n the Spring of 1935.
avaliable data on
for restrlctlons on
Ad Hoc Group to
1:5 recommendatlons
Internatlonal Regulatlons
Consolldated L15: of Chemlcals.
on December 5, 1935, ms
submltted comments to the State Department on a June, 1935, Paper of the
Secretarlat concernlng the compllatlon of the mu.
"Consolldated
L15: of Products Whose Consumptlon And/Dr Sale Have Been Banned,
Wlthdrawn, Severely Restrlcted or Not Approved by Governments".
ms
reafflrmed earller comments 1n opposltlon to thls mu.
actlvlty.
However. underunder the assumptlon that the mu.
Hill contlnue m complle
1:: List, ms also recommended changes 1n the crlterla for 115mm;
chemlcals andon provlslons to ensure agalnst 1nadvertent dlsclosure of
confldentlallnfomatlon obtalned by the mu.
1n conjunctlon Hlth 1:5
actlvlty.
Legal Support
EC Product Llablllty Dlrectlve.
mm the support of Counsel, ms 15
preparlng a proposed posltlon paper on the European Cononunltylsmm July,
1935, Product Llablllty Dlrectlve.
Th1: Directlve 1ncludes several
concepts of concern to 1nternatlonal busmess, 1nclud1ng those of
developmental rlsk, flnanclal llmltatlons on llablllty, strlct llablllty,
and the deflnltlon of a defect.
The member countrles of the EC have three years 1n whlch to 1mplement
the Dlrectlve.
However. the dlrectlon of thls luvplementatlon process 15
unclear, Since governments have been given Varlous optlonsby the Dlrectlve
on crltlcal aspects such as flnanclal Ceilings and developmental rlsk,
1:
15, therefore. to be expected that dlfferlng, 1ncon515tent unplementlng
laws will be adopted by the EC member countrles.
Th1: Hill 1nev1tably
lead to forum shopplng by future plalntlffs.
IAG'S comments will be coordlnated mm those of the Internatlonal
Chamber of Commerce and the European Councll of Chemlcal Manufacturers'
Federatlons.
Patents and Protectlon of Technology
Congress
Page
cm 039544
Process Patent Leglslatlon.
on December 16, 1935, cm sent a letter
to the Senate Judlclary Commlttee Subcommlttee on Patents, Copyrlghts and
Trademarks expresslng support for 5.1543, the major leglslatlve Vehlcle on
process patents.
The Subcommlttee had held a hearlng on thls leglslatlon
on October 23, 1935.
5.1543 would give the owner of a process patented 1n the Unlted States
the rlght to brlng a sum for patent 1nfr1ngement agalnst a party who
1mports a product that 15 manufactured abroad by usmg the process.
Many
countrles that are major tradlng partners of the Unlted States already
have such laws.
CMA'S comments, however. also urge the Subcommlttee to address
anclllary lssues before actlng on 5.1543:
the General Agreement on Tarlffs
and Trade (GATT) 1mpllcatlons of thls leglslatlon and clrcumstances under
whlch a presumptlon of 1nfr1ngement should arlse when the patent owner 15
unable to obtaln 1nfomatlon about the process used to manufacture a
product.
Earller 1n 1935, CMA had jolned 1n 3 Coalltlon Hlth 73 companles and
12 assoclatlons 1n supportlng leglslatlon on thls subject generally.
Th1:
Coalltlon 15 led by Intellectual Property Owners, Inc. (rpm.
The Uniform Patent Procedures Act of 1935.
on November 25, 1935, cm
endorsed 5.54, the Unlform Patent Procedures Act of 1995.
Th1:
leglslatlon. 1ntroduced by Senator Dole (R.Kan.7 on January 3, 1935,
focuses on government patent pollcy.
1: allows all government contractors
to elect to retaln tltle m federally funded 1nventlons.
1: expands
exlstlng law, whlch applies to contractors from small busmesses and
nonproflt organlzatlons, m 1nclude large busmess contractors as well.
CMA belleves that 5.54 15 unportant m ellmlnate barrlers to
1ndustry's development and appllcatlon of new technology, and to encourage
a cllmate under whlch such development and appllcatlon Will be fostered.
Moreover. prompt passage of 5.54 would create an atmosphere 1n whlch all
1ndustry, not just selected sectors, would be given the necessary
1ncent1ves to make necessary flnanclal 1nvestments to move new 1deas 1nto
the marketplace.
Pollcy Development/Legal Issues
Sectlon 301 Investlgatlon on Korea.
In November. 1935, the Offlce of
the v.5, Trade Representatlve (USTR7 1n1tlated an 1nvest1gatlon under
Sectlon 301 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended. 1nto the adequacy of the
laws of the Republlc of Korea governlng the protectlon of 1ntellectual
property rlghts.
Page
41
CMA 039545
r
CMA submltted prellmlnary comments on thls subject to USTR.
Addltlonal comments are belng complled, especlally on those aspects of the
Korean law that are most troublesome and speclflc examples of 1nstances 1n
whlch v.5. trade and 1nvestment have been negatlvely affected.
State Leglslatlve and Regulatory Advocacy
Superfund
In 1995 addltlonal state Superfund actlon 1: expected 1n
Pennsylvanla, New Jersey, Washlngton, Callfornla and South Carollna.
In
New Jersey alone the cost to 1ndustry could approach one bllllon dollars
as Senator Ray Lesnlak works to expand the fund.
CMA State Hazardous
Wastes/Groundwater Task Group members are worklng mm the approprlate
state trade organlzatlons on thls crltlcal issue.
The Task Group 15 also completlng the flrst phase of thelr study of
state Superfund: whlch conslsted of a survey of a key states:
Alabama.
Callfornla, Illlnols. Louisiana, Mlchlgan, New Jersey, New York, and South
Carollna.
Th1: initial study will result 1n 3 better understandlng of the
potentlal cost to the chemlcal 1ndustry and Will also lead to an expanded
study to obtaln more comprehenslve 1nformatlon.
The study addresses the
broad range of state superfunds, 1ndustry fundlng bases, amounts
collected. actual uses of funds, slte selectlon Criteria, cleanup
standards and future plans.
1
Publlc Compensatlon
Major state actlvlty on publlc compensatlon contlnues to be 1n the
state of Massachusetts where the Speclal Leglslatlve Commlsslon on
Llablllty for Releases of 011 and Hazardous Materlals has been
reactlvated.
The colmnlsslon Will be studylng 1nsurance avallablllty,
quantlflcatlon of need and llablllty lssues.
The state's publlc
compensatlon mm was not acted upon 1n 1935, but 1: has been reﬁlled for
1935.
Hazardous Waste Management and Regulatlon
The Natlonal Conference of State Leglslatures has 1dent1£1ed
envlronmental lssues as one of the top three lssues faclng the states 1n
1935.
The other two are educatlon and flscal concerns.
The major
envlronmental lssues are:
groundwater. acld raln and the dlsposal of
hazardous waste.
5
The siting of hazardous waste facilities, always a major concern, has
become more compllcated by the growlng liability 1nsurance problem.
Most
sltes cannot be llcensed wlthout 1nsurance. whlch 15 Vlrtually
unavallable.
Page
42
CMA 039545
Some of the actlon around the states 1ncludes Callfornla where the
Governor's task force on toxlcs, waste. and technology will report 1::
proposed solutlons m the states hazardous waste capaclty and pollcy
problems on May 1.
These recommendatlons will then be consldered by the
leglslature as the basls for new laws.
ohm leglslators have approved
sharp 1ncreases 1n waste dlsposal fees ranglng up to 520 per ton.
The
same Dhlo mu provldes funds to local munlclpalltles for equlpment and
training for local emergencles 1nvolv1ng hazardous waste.
nghtitoiknow
Leglslatlon 7 Followlng more than a year of 1ntense debate, the
Michigan Leglslature reached a compromlse on a package of leglslatlon
whlch has been endorsed by the Michigan Chemlcal Councll.
The package
conslsts of three mus:
3.13. 4111 addresses worker rlghtitoiknow and
adopts the federal OSHA Hazard Communlcatlons Standard mm expanded
coverage; 3.13. 5250 requlres emergency response plannlng through
1nfomatlon sharlng Hlth flre chlefs? 3.13. 5251 sets communlty
rlghtitoiknow provlslons allowlng the general publlc access to MSDS'S and
workplace 115:: of hazardous substances.
The Leglslature adjourned the
1995 sesslon wlthout taklng flnal actlon on these mus, whlch will carry
over to 1995.
Conslderatlon 1: expected early 1n the year.
In ﬂew Jersey, the Leglslature gave flnal approval to A. 4145, the
"Toxlc Catastrophe Preventlon Act." Th1: mu requlres manufacturers and
users of a llmlted 115: of chemlcals to reglster Hlth the state and
perform rlsk assessments of thelr chemlcal processes.
The state has the
authorlty to order rlsk reductlon measures for covered facllltles and
could order operatlons to cease untll rlsks are reduced to an acceptable
The mu 1: expected to be Signed 1nto law by the Governor 1n the
near future.
thlgatlon 7 on December 12, 1935, the v.5. Dlstrlct Court 1n
Pennsylvanla ruled on the relatlonshlp between the state's rlghtitoiknow
law and the federal OSHA Hazard Communlcatlons Standard.
The rullng
followed the precedent set 1n New Jersey and held that the Pennsylvanla
law 15 preempted by the standard as 1: applies to the regulatlon of
employee health and safety 1n the manufacturlng sector.
The rullng also
held that parts of the law appllcable m nonmanufacturers are 5:111
operatlve, thus creatlng a dual system 1n the state.
The chemlcal
1ndustry may seek clarlflcatlon on some aspects of the rullng.
The ohm Manufactures Assoclatlon has ﬁlled 5m: 1n Federal Court to
overturn the clty of Akron's local rlghtitoiknow ordlnance on the grounds
of federal preemptlon.
Arguments and filings 1n that case are expected to
contlnue through January.
1995 Leglslatlve Sesslons 7 The State Affalrs nghtitoiknow T351:
Page
43
CMA 039547
Group 15 developmg a 115: of lssues whlch may become state leglslatlve
initiatives 1n 1936,
These 1nclude:
collectlng data on chemlcal
productlon and use 1n 3 state; mandatory chemlcal process controls;
mandatory emergency response plannlng; and regulatlon of chemlcal
shlpments through communltles.
The task group 15 revlewlng cm pollcy 1n
these areas and preparlng posltlon papers and other support materlals for
use by member companles and state CIC's who may face these lssues durlng
the year.
Groundwater
As mentloned earller. the Natlonal Conference of State Leglslatures
(NCSL7 1dent1£1ed groundwater contamlnatlon as one of the three top
envlronmental lssues of 1935.
CMA'S State Hazardous Waste/Groundwater
Task Group'reports that groundwater Will be an lssue 1n Vlrtually every
state.
NCSL and the Councll of State Governments are developmg posltlon
papers and model leglslatlon, and CMA State Affalrs 15 asslstlng these key
organlzatlons.
Part of thls effort will be shared Hlth a new CMA work
group whlch comblnes State Affalrs representatlves mm thelr counterparts
from the technlcal commlttees.
All of thls actlvlty 15 prlmarlly a result
EPA delegatlng most of the groundwater program to the states
comblned mm the llkellhood of the v.5.
Congress not developmg related
leglslatlon untll 1939.
So most of the groundwater actlon for at least
the next couple of years Will be at the state level.
Hazardous Materlals Transportatlon
A mu has been recommended to the Colorado Leglslature that would
requlre most trucks carrylng hazardous materlals to get permlts and follow
deslgnated routes.
Money from permit sales and flnes 1mposed on Vlolators
would be used to create a hazardous materlals safety fund for training
emergency response crews.
The State Department of Publlc Safety would
detemlne the routes that hazardous materlals trucks could take and would
lssue other rules.
Whlle the majorlty of the states have passed Good Samarltan laws,
some states will be conslderlng the lssue 1n 1935.
The New Jersey
proposal riled near the end of 1995, but the New Jersey Chemlcal Industry
Councll has succeeded 1n havlng an 1dent1cal mu 1ntroduced thls year.
Addltlonal support 15 needed to assure passage.
The ohm House passed a
Good Sam mm on the last day of 1995 and the Senate will conslder the
lssue early 1n 1935.
Toxlc Alr
State Regulatlon 7 The Connectlcut Department of Health has
challenged a major new air toxlcs control program that was recently
Page
44
CMA 039549
announced by the state's Department of Envlronmental Control.
The program
would set amblent 11mm: based on TLV'S plus a safety factor for 950
chemlcals.
The Department of Health 15 pushlng for changes 1n the program
to take 1nto account actual health effects of the chemlcals.
Untll the
agencles are able to reach an agreement, the alr toxlcs program approval
process has been put on hold.
Other states whlch are conslderlng alr
toxlcs control regulatlons 1nclude Maryland, Kentucky, and North Carollna.
Pollcy Development 7 The State Affalrs Commlttee 15 actlvely
partlclpatlng 1n CMA'S effort to develop a new Assoclatlon program for
reduclng toxlc chemlcal emlsslons.
Once the program has been approved,
the commlttee Hill 35515: other CMA departments 1n dissemlnatlng the
program to state 1nterest groups,
Chronlc Health
Leglslatlon establlshlng a new system for identifying and protectlng
workers who are deemed to be at "high" rlsk of contractlng occupatlonal
dlsease 15 bemg consldered 1n Callfornla.
A.B. 990 1: strongly opposed
by the chemlcal 1ndustry because of 1:5 burdensome requlrements and hlgh
costs.
The 1ndustry feels that exlstlng programs 1n the state already
accompllsh the goals of thls b111, and new leglslatlon 15 unnecessary.
The Callfornla cm, along Hlth cm member companles, 15 attemptlng to
amend or defeat thls leglslatlon.
10. Insurance/Llablllty
Almost all of the state leglslatlve bodles are worklng on some aspect
of thls issue.
The most presslng concern 1: the affordablllty and
avaliablllty of 1nsurance coverage.
Hearlngs have been scheduled 1n many
states.
The more baslc concerns of tort recom are also bemg revlewed.
These concerns will take longer to resolve.
They are bemg worked on by
the Natlonal Councll of State Leglslatures and the Amerlcan Leglslatlve
Exchange Councll among others.
Speclflc Chemlcal Research and Advocacy
Research and Advocacy nghllghts
Alkanolamlnes.
The Natlonal Toxlcology Program will begln, thls
February, a Bniday subchmmc bloassay on trlethanolamlne.
The Panel will
actlvely track thls study.
Benzene.
osaA's proposed revlslon of the benzene workplace standard
was publlshed 1n the Federal Reglster on December 10, 1935.
OSHA 15
proposlng to reduce the PEL from 10 ppm to 1 ppm TWA mm an actlon level
Comments are due :9 OSHA on February 14, 1935, and hearlngs
are scheduled 1n March.
Page
45
CMA 039549
The Benzene Panel 15 conslderlng health and rlsk assessment aspects
of the proposal, expected Varlablllty 1n monltorlng for compllance mm a
PEL of 1 ppm, feaslblllty lssues, medlcal survelllance, use of resplrators
and other 1ndustrlal hyglene lssues.
Butadlene.
The Panel ﬁlled comments on the rlsk assessment for
butadlene prepared by EPA'S Carclnogen Assessment Group (CA5).
Panel
representatlve made a presentatlon on the CAG rlsk assessment to EPA'S
Sclence Advlsory Board (SAB).
The SAB agreed mm many of the Panel's
Criticisms of the CAG rlsk assessment 311d recommended several revlslons
along llnes suggested by the Panel.
Th5 Panel also ﬁlled comments on a
rlsk assessment prepared by the EPA Offlce of Toxlc Substances (DTS) to
support concluslons about occupatlonal exposure to butadlene.
Panel
representatlves subsequently met Hlth John Moore, Asslstant Admlnlstrator
for Pestlcldes and Toxlc Substances, to dlscuss the rlsk assessment.
Moore agreed mm many of the Panel's concerns.
The Panel's comments will
be provlded to OSHA to 35515: 1n preparlng a rlsk assessment for
occupatlonal exposure tb butadlene.
The DTS rlsk assessment 15 the basls for EPA“ s TSCA Sectlon 9137
referral :9 OSHA.
Panel representatlves met Hlth the OSHA staff and JACA
Cozporatlon. osaA's contractor. to dlscuss the evaluatlon of butadlene n
response to EPA'S referral.
The Panel will track thls actlvlty at OSHA.
The Panel also contracted Hlth an expert consultant to revlew the
mathematlcal calculatlons 1ncluded 1n the DTS rlsk assessment on
butadlene.
The consultant's report 1dent1£1ed several flaws 1n EPA'S
approach and recomended alternatlve procedures.
The report has been
submltted to EPA.
Panel representatlves partlclpated 1n 3 CMA workshop on
rlsk assessment and made presentatlons on the EPA rlsk assessment .
butadlene.
The Panel sponsored an such: of the mouse study on butadlene
conducted by the Natlonal Toxlcology Program.
The Panel's audlt
documented the quallty control problems experlenced durlng the NT- study
and relnforced the Panel's posltlon that the study 15 unsultable for use
1n quantltatlve rlsk modellng.
Panel representatlves also met Hlth mp
and CUT m revlew ongolng testlng programs for butadlene.
In October 1935, EPA publlshed 1n the Federal Reglster an "Inte t to
Llst" Butadlene as 3 Hazardous Alr Pollutant under Sectlon 112 .5 the
Clean Alr Act.
Panel representatlves met Hlth the staff of EPA'S Offlce
of Alr Quallty Plannlng and Standards to revlew EPA'S evaluat on of
butadlene for posslble regulatlon.
The Panel 15 asslstlng EPA 1n trylng
m reallstlcally detemlne the emlsslons of butadlene.
The Panel actlvltles mm EPA and OSHA are expected to contl us at a
high level 1n 1935.
Page
45
CMA naeaan
Cumene.
EPA announced proposed testlng requlrements for cumene undr
Sectlon 4 of TSCA 1n 3 Federal Reglster notlce on Novembe a, 1935.
Manufacturers and processors of the chemlcal Will be requ red to conduct
tests for health and envlronmental effects.
Health effects testlng Hill 1nclude:
pharmacoklnetlcs. developmental
toxlclty, subchmmc toxlclty, neurotoxlclty, oncogemc y and
reproductlve toxlclty us :nggeredy.
To test for envlronmental effect.
the Agency 15 proposlng acute and chronlc aquatlc toxllty tests on
saltwater nsn and 1nvertebrates, and blodegradatlon ad Volatlllzatlon
from water.
The Cumene Panel 15 preparlng comments on the proposa .
DE
partlcular 1nterest are the findings upon whlch EPA uses the proposed
rule:
a potentlally unreasonable rlsk of mutagenlc and onc-genlc effects;
and. a potentlal for substantlal human exposure m manufacturlng,
processlng, use and dlsposal.
The Panel Hl).l sponsor further mutagenlclty
testlng m detemlne 15 there 15 sufflclent evlden-e for the flrst finding
and also 15 closely examlnlng emlsslons data to se 15 there 15
justlflcatlon for the second,
comments are due to EPA by February 20,
1935.
Butylated Hydroxytoluene.
The Department of Publlc Health, State of
Massachusetts, has tentatlvely declded to dellst BET as a carclnogen from
1:: Substance Llst.
Th1: occurred malnly through the efforts of Dr.
Don
McGraw of Koppers Company, the BET Panel Chalran.
In addltlon, Irwln
Prager of Unlroyal testlfled at the Department's Publlc Hearlng bn behalf
of the Panel.
The Department 1: expected to publlsh the rev sad Substance
L15: reflectlng thls change 1n January 1935.
Cresols.
The Panel 15 expectlng the flnal TSCA Sectlo 4 test rule
thls March.
In preparatlon for the rule, the Panel 15 rcelvlng blds to
perform the toxlcology testlng.
A flnal contractor will be selected and
testlng Hill begln once the flnal rule 15 ssued.
The Panel 15 also
tracklng the EPA Land Dlsposal Prohlbltlo Regulatlon.
Cresols are on
the initial 115: for posslble land dlspo —1 bannlng.
leenzofurans/D1benzodlox1ns.
The Panel 15 preparlng comments 1n
response to EPA'S TSCA Sectlon 4 and a roposed rules.
The proposal
requlres the conduct of dmxm and dlbe zofgran analyses of Varlous
chemlcal substances.
The Panel ﬁlled comments 1n response ‘. EPA“ s RCRA proposal to change
the 115mm; from "acute hazardous" to 'tox14" for 1nc1neratlon resldues of
several dmxm wastes.
The comments argued that EPA should r-lse the
concentratlon 11m: for wastes cover- by the rule from 10 ppm m 100 ppm.
Ethylene leromlde.
The Panel 1: Waiting for a longioverue OSHA
Page
47
CMA 039551
flnal rule.
The Panel will revlew the rule one 1: 15 publlshed.
Ethylene chhlorlde.
The EPA announced last October an "Intent to
Llst" BBC as 3 Hazardous Alr Polltant under Sectlon 112 of the Clean Alr
Act.
The Panel provlded comments on he announcement and 15 further
evaluatlng several of the refers ces glven 1n the announcement.
The Panel
will further revlew the health ffects and rlsk assessment on BBC provlded
1n the announcement.
Ethylene Dxlde.
The Ethylene Dxlde Industry Concll provlded
comments to EPA on 1:: recent 'Intent to Llst" m as a Potentlal Hazardous
Alr Pollutant.
The Ear: Envlronmental Task G cup 15 evaluatlng the m air
emlsslons developed by EPA.
The group 15 provldlng EPA R th 1nfomatlon
m reallstlcally estlmate El releases.
The Task Group has also rev sued
the EPA Human Exposure Mode whlch 15 used 1n the Agency's Hazardous Alr
Pollutant program.
EPA 15 presently surveylng the 1ndustry m determlne
episodic releases or excurlons from the annual average.
Ethylhexanolc Acld.
The Ethylhexallolc Acld P.nel met mm EPA to
dlscuss the proposed test rule for EBA under Sectlon 4 of TSCA 150 Fed.
Reg.
205787 .
EPA has speculated that -ermal exposure to EBA mlght occur
durlng processlng, althugh manufacturers and major processors have
1nd1cated to the Agency that most operatlons occur under condltlons where
exposure 15 unllkely.
To bolster 1:5 noiexpo-ure argument, the Panel
contracted mm Temple Barker and Sloane, Inc.
to conduct a survey 0
handllng practlces amnng processors of EBA.
The survey responses
1nd1cated that dema contact mm EBA durlng processlng 15 Vlrtually
noniexlstent.
Nlnety percent of t - responders 1nstruct thelr employees
to wear gloves when they may have contact mm EBA, and Elva percent
dlstrlbute EBA wlthnut repackaglng.
leen these result , the Panel feels
that EPA cannot ju-tlfy a finding that exposure to EBA 1n the workplace
"may present an un easonable rlsk of 1njury."
The Panel Will Go 1nue to work mm EPA to document the posltlon
that a NaiTest Delslon should be made for EBA.
EPA 1: expected :-
publlsh 1:: Cone uslon 1n the Summer of 1935.
Fluorocarbons.
In October 1995 he Fluorocarbon Panel released 1::
report on the poductlon, use, and emlsslons of chlorofluorocarbons 11 and
12 through 1994
Productlon of (1711 1ncreased from 1,427 mllllon pounds
1n 1993 m 1,5 1 mllllon pounds 1n 1934, accordlng to the Alexander Grant
and Company Go pllatlon.
Members of th Panel met 1n early October mm Department of State
and Envlronmetal Protectlon Agency offlclals m revlew upcomlng
actlvltles uner the Unlted Natlons Envlronment Programme's ummn
Commlttee fo the Protectlon of Stratospherlc Ozone.
Two economc
Workshops 3 - belng planned for 1935, as well as an EPA/UN‘EP conference
Page
49
CMA 039552
entltled, 'Health and Envlronmental Effects of Ozone Depletlon and Cllmate
Change."
The Panel submltted comments to EPA on the August 1995 draft of the
Rand Corpmatlon report on "Projected Use, Emlsslons, and Banks of
Potentla Dzonedjepletlng Substances" (October 15, 19357.
Retlreme ts and reasslgnments marked the closmg months of 1935.
In
Septemb-r, longitlme Panel member B.
Peter B oak of Pennwalt retlred.
He
has be- replaced both on the Panel and as Chalrman of the External
Affalr Task Force by Jullus Dohany, Dlrector of Fluorochemlcals Research
and De elopment for Pennwalt.
Ellie Magld of AlllerkSlgnal and Odo K1315
of Hochst Ag were both reasslgned to new dutles Hlthln thelr companles 1n
nece ner.
No p ans to replace them have been announced.
Also 1n
Dec- ner, Rlchard B.
war, representatlve from 3.1.
du on: and Chalrman
of he Panel. was transferred to a new posltlon at DuPont.
Mak McFarland
will replace mm as the DuPont representatlve.
T a Panel 15 faclng the
e ectlon of a new chalrman.
Aycol Ethers.
t an October publlc course*sett1ng meetlng, EPA
.nnounced 1:5 1ntent m requlre testlng of three trlethylene glycol
onoethers (TGE7 methyl, ethyl and butyl.
EPA 15 proceedlng Hlth a
51ngle*phase rulemaklng.
AGENDA
MEETING OF CMA 13mm: OF DIRECTORS
Monday and Tuesday, January 25727, 1997
mm Carlton Hotel. Salon I
Naples, Florlda
Monday, January 25
0
Call to Order and Approval of Mlnutes of
November 17, 1995 Meetlng W Chalrman
Clark
Report of the Distrlbutlon Commlttee ~
Ronald M. Jacobson, Rohm and Haas Company;
Chalrman. DC
Conslttee Annual Report
Chemnet Partlclpatlon Report
TAB
Separate
Report
1
Report of the Texas Chemlcal Councll
Charles T. Seay, ch Chalrman (Exxon
Chemlcal Amerlcas7; and Harry Whltworth,
ch Presldent
3
Annual Report of the Health and Safety
Commlttee J. Ronald Condray, Monsanto
Company; Chalman, Hsc
lD:lDrlD:25
Alr Toxlcs Survey Results Frank w, Berryman
Chevron Chemlcal Company, Chalman, Envlroni
mental Management Commlttee; and Paul King,
PPG'IndustrleS, Inc., Chalman, EMC Alr
Toxlcs Coordlnatlng Group
10:25710:4n
Report of the Speclal Energy Advlsory Group
Hugh R. Irvlne, Exxon Chemlcal Amerlcas;
Chalrman. SEAG
10:4071055
Report of the Speclal Programs Pollcy Com?
mlttee Harry Corless, Chalman
Separate
Report
10:5571195
Separate
Report
Annual Report of the Internatlonal Trade Com?
mlttee Max L. Turnlpseed, Ethyl Carport
tlon; Chalrman. ITC
Clean Sltes Inc. 1:517 Report W Russell
Traln. Chalman
2
Separate
Report
3
4
cm 039599
11:3571155
Report on Reglonal Executlve Contact
Meetlngs Chalrman Clark
11:55712:nn
New Buslness
12:00 Noon
Adjourn
Tuesday, January 27
3:00 am
Call to order Chalman Clark
Board Commlttee Reports
Executlve Commlttee W Harold A. Sorgentl
Membershlp Commlttee W Carlyle G. Caldwell
Assoclatlon Actlvltles
Treasurer's Report 77 Gary c. Herrman
Program and Issue Developments Robert
A. Roland
5
35:79:55
Annual Report of the Tax Pollcy Commlttee
James a. PughPPG Industrles, Inc.; Chalri
man, TFC
Report of the Executlve Commlttee's Llablllty
Reform Work Group and Recommendatlons on
State Tort Law Reform W Kelth R. McKennon,
Chalrman
Annual Report of the Communlcatlons Commlti
tee Mlchael E. Thompson, Amoco Carport
tlon; Chalrman. cc
Separate
Report
Annual Report of the Patent and Trademark Com?
mlttee
Patrlck L. Henry, Allledisngnal
Inc.; Chalrman. PTC
Separate
Report
Conslderatlon of Proposed Pollcles and Programs
Hazardous Waste Mlnlmlzatlon Program
Frank w. Berryman, Chevron Chemlcal
Company, Chalman, Envlronmental Manage*
ment CommlttEE; and Charles T. Seay,
Exxon Chemlcal Amerlcas, Chalrman. EMC
Ad Hoc Hazardous Waste Mlnlmlzatlon Work
Group
Separate
Report
7
a
t
cm nze-mn
musanmn
Natlonal Groundwater Pollcy Frank w.
Berryman, Chevron Chemlcal Company,
Chalrman. Envlronmental Management Com?
mlttEE; Charles D. Malloch, Monsanto
Company, Chalman, EMC Groundwater
Management Task Group; and Scott 5.
Cunnlngham, vmon Carblde Cozporatlon,
Chalrman. GRC Groundwater Task Group
10:4niln:sn
Internatlonal Trade Natlonal Securlty
Turnlpseed, Ethyl Cozporatlon; Chalrman,
ITC
10
ID:SDrll:DS
ANSI Standards for Chronlc Hazards and
Target Organ Labellng J. Ronald
Condray, Monsanto Company; Chalrman,
as:
11
n:nsinan
Dccupatlonal Dlsease Informatlon and
Medlcal Survelllance Pollcy (Gaydos
11:3071150
~12:nn Noon
To Be
Mallet!
Subsequently
Clean Sltes Inc. 1:517 Fundlng Recommendatlons
New. Busmess
Adj ourn
cm 039701
2351
MINUTES of the thrEE*hundred eleventh meetlng of the Board of Dlrectors of the
Chemlcal Manufacturers Assoclatlon, Inc.: held 1n Salon I of the Rlcz Carlton.
Naples, Florlda, on Monday and Tuesday, January 25 and 27, 1997. There were
present:
Dlrectors:
Robert a. Forney 7 Vice Chalman
Robert A. Roland. Presldent
Dexter F. Baker
Cyrll c. Baldwln, Jr.
Robert u,' Cadleux
Carlyle G. Caldwell
Paul w. Chellgren 117
Harry Corless
Robert w. Davls
John T. Flies
Vlncent L. Gregory
Earle a. Harblson, Jr.
D. George Harrls
John v, Johnstone. Jr.
Emerson Rampen
Robert D. Kennedy m
Carl w. Lorentzen
John 5. Ludlngton 117
a. E. McBrayer
Kelth R. McKennon
M. Whltson Sadler
Roy Sambrook
Vlncent A. Sun;
Harold A. Sorgentl
Edwln L. Stensel
5. Jay Stewart
Otto Sturzenegger
0. Edward Wall
Konrad M. Wels
Chong y. Yoon
Secretary:
Treasurer:
General Counsel:
Charles w. Van Vlack
Gary c. Herman
Davld F. 2°11
By Invltatlon:
Frank w. Berryman 7 Chevron Chemlcal Company
J. Ronald Condray 7 Monsanto Company
Geraldlne v. Cox 7 cm
Scott 5. Cunnlngham 7 Unlon Carblde Cozporatlon (27
Kenneth E. Davls 7 Rohm and Haas Company
Myron T. Foveaux 7 cm
Clyde B. Greener: 7 Unlon Carblde Cozporatlon
Edvard u. Gncnm 7 ARCD Chemlcal Company
Patrlck L. Henry 7 AlllerkSlgnal Inc.
Jon c. Holtznan 7 CMA
E. Hamllton Hurst 7 Nalco Chemlcal Company
Hubert R. Irvlne 7 Exxon Chemlcal Amerlcas (17
Ronald M. Jacobson 7 Rohm and Haas Company 117
Conrad 5. Kent 7 150mm Stauffer Chemlcal Company
Charles D. Malloch 7 Monsanto Company 127
Mlchael A. Plerle 7 Monsanto Chemlcal Company
James a. Pugh, PPG Industrles, Inc.
Randal P. Schumacher 7 cm
Charles T. Seay 7 Exxon Chemlcal Amerlcas
Willlam M. Stover 7 CMA
cm 039702
2352
Russell Traln. Clean Sltes Inc. 117
Max L. Turnlpseed 7 Ethyl Cozporatlon
Harry P. Whltworth 7 Texas Chemlcal Councll m
Benjamln Woodhouse 7 The Dow Chemlcal Company
117 Monday only
127 Tuesday only
MINUTES OF THE NOVEMBER 17. 1995 MEETING
The meetlng was called to order at 9:00 a.m. on Monday, January 25, 1937,
by Chalman Clark. The mlnutes of the November 17, 1935, Board meetlng were
approved as dlstrlbuted.
2
ANNUAL COMMITTEE REPORTS
Mr. Clark Indlcated the chalmen maklng thelr annual reports on the
actlvltles and outlook of the Varlous Assoclatlon commlttees had been asked to
change the format of thelr presentatlons m be shorter and less technlcal, and more
focused on one or two key lssues 1n the year ahead. He expressed his hope that
thls would lead to more dlalogue between the commlttee chalmen and the Board, and
less fomal presentatlons.
ursmmmmu COMMITTEE
Mr. Jacobson presented the annual report of the Dlstrlbutlon Commlttee.
A summary of his report 15 attached as Exhibit A. nghllghts from 1995 1n his
report 1ncluded:
Increase 1n CHEMTREC actlvlty,
Mlamlsburg 1nc1dent and CMA documentary,
Flrst responder training program and materlals.
Development of cm training Vldeotapes.
Growth 1n Chemlcal Referral Center (cum calls.
The followlng were identified by Mr. Jacobson as areas of 1ncreased
actlvlty for 1937:
Expanslon of CAER m transportatlon
o
Rlsk management 1n transportatlon
Internatlonal regulatlon
cm 039703
CHEMNET REPORT
Mr. Jacobson provlded an update mxmm: B7 on the camum program and
the need to expand partlclpatlon 1n the program beyond the 79 companles currently
partlclpatlng. He 1nd1cated that the camum system had been trlggered 41 tunes 1n
the past 14 months and those 1nc1dents all appeared to be well handled. Although
liability had been a major concern inhibiting the partlclpatlon of some companles,
the flrst year's experlence dld not result 1n any lltlgatlon agalnst a CHEMNET
responder.
Followlng Mr. Jacobson's presentatlon, there was general dlscusslon of
the program and the need for more partlclpatlon. 1: was agreed that there should
be another sollcltatlon m nonipartlclpatlng companles, 1nd1cat1ng the overall
success of the program to date and the endorsement of the Assoclatlon...s Board for
1ncreased partlclpatlon.
TEXAS CHEMICAL covucm
Mr. Seay, Chalrman of the Texas Chemlcal Councll (Tam, Presented an
overvlew of the mm the unportance of the chemlcal 1ndustry to the Texas economy;
the unportance of Texas' chemlcal 1ndustry m the overall strength natlonwlde of
the chemlcal 1ndustry; the development of an 1nnovat1ve grassroots program the
Assoclated Chemlcal Industry of Texas (ACIT).
Mr. Vhltworth, Presldent of the Tea, presented a busmess cllmate/
leglslatlve outlook for Texas 1n 1937. Key Issues for the 1ndustry 1n Texas thls
year were 1dent1£1ed as budget and taxes, tort refom, and cogeneratlon. General
dlscusslon of Texas Issues and Tea and ACIT actlvltles followed, A copy of the Tea
report 15 attached as Exhibit c.
on MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1: was
VOTED: That the followlng recommendatlons of the Texas
Chemlcal Councll be endorsed by the Board:
That CMA and 1:5 1nd1v1dual member companles provlde
support for D
Plant managers 1n thelr work Hlth government
relatlons. publlc affalrs, CAER, etc.
Increased company, suppller and customer support
for the Texas Clvll Justlce League (tort recom
coalltlom and the Assoclated Chemlcal Industry
of Texas (a Coalltlon of busmess 1n support of
chemlcal Industry Interests).
9
Increased polltlcal and PAC actlvlty 1n support
of busmess candldates.
Economlc Impact analysls of leglslatlon to focus
attentlon on jobs and competltlveness.
cm 039704
2354
HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEE
Mr. Condray presented the annual report of the Health and Safety Commlti
tee. A summary of his report 15 attached as Exhlblt u. He hlghllghted key acmw
itles from 1995 such as Superfund (emergency preparedness, communlty rlghtitoiknow,
health authorltles, etc.7: CAER, OSHA and the BLS guldellnes. He 1nd1cated a major
prlorlty for the next 5710 years Will be worker health and safety lssues such as
the adequacy of workplace regulatlons, 1nspectlon mechanlsms, chronlc dlsease
detectlon and compensatlon mechanlsms.
Followlng Mr. Condray's presentatlon, there was general dlscusslon of
these Issues mm partlcular attentlon :9 OSHA and the enforcement of the Bureau of
Labor Statistlcs (BLS7 guldellnes for reportlng injuries. 1: was agreed that the
need for all member companles to utilize the BLS guldellnes was 5:111 crltlcal and
that another communlcatlon to the membershlp on thls matter was approprlate. The
advlsablllty of an offmeylevel V151: mm the Labor Department/DSHA leadershlp
was also dlscussed.
AIR TDXICS smwm
Mr. Berryman presented an overvlew of the Envlronmental Management
Commlttee's progress on unplementlng the Assoclatlon's air toxlcs pollcy.
Mr. Rlng presented the interim results mxmm: m of the survey on the
status of luvplementatlon by the membershlp of the alr pollcy. 315 report 15
attached as Exhlblt E. Through January 9, 71 responses had been recelved and
followup was contlnulng Hlth the other 100 members. Major needs identified 1n the
survey were a better understandlng of the program and 1:5 objectlves Hlthln the
Industry, and addltlonal support for member companles 1n the area of communlcatlons
Hlth the plant communlty and the publlc generally. Smaller companles requested a
prlorltlzatlon of recommended actlvltles and some sense of what a recommended
company program should be. Mr. Klng's concluslon from the survey and the ongolng
analysls of the EMC group was that substantlal progress had been made but that 1:
was'not yet sufflclent to meet the programs objectlves.
Followlng Mr. Klng's presentatlon, there was general dlscusslon regardlng
the survey and the overall luvplementatlon of the pollcy.Those Board members
who
had not yet responded to the survey were urged to do so. The unportance of a good
response from the membershlp on the pollcy's 1mplementatlon was also stressed. 1:
was suggested that the responses be portrayed as representlng a percentage of the
total sales of the Industry, and staff agreed to explore thls approach.
There was
Commlttee and Board
programs for Issues
agreed to take thls
also conslderable dlscusslon of the need for the Executlve
to dlscuss and come to agreement on longirange dlrectlons and
such as health effects and other strateglc areas. The offlcers
under advlsement.
SPECIAL ENERGY ADVISORY snow
Mr. Irvlne presented the report of the Speclal Energy Advlsory Group. A
summary of his report 15 attached as Exhibit F. He hlghllghted key developments
[slnce the group was formed 1n the Spring of 1935. He 1nd1cated that energy costs
the chemlcal Industry about $12 bllllon per year and represents approxlmately 27x
of product cost. Key Issues 1n 1995 Included reportlng requlrements. Federal
cm 039705
2355
Energy Regulatory Commlsslon (mum actlon, oll unport fee proposals and the
Superfund petroleum tax. For 1937, Mr. Irvlne projected oll import fees and FEF.C
actlons as the major lssues.
SPECIAL woman: POLICY COMMITTEE
Mr. Corless presented the annual report of the Speclal Programs Pollcy
Commlttee. A summary of thls report 15 attached as Exhibit G. He reported that 1:
had been a qulet year mm no major pollcy Issues to resolve. He am, however,
ralse one Important lssue for Board conslderatlon.
0N MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1: was
VOTED: That Executlve Contacts of member
companles be encouraged to place thelr jolnt
efforts on 1nd1v1dual products (Speclal
Programs) under the aegls of a trade assoclatlon.
The unportance of the trade assoclatlon umbrella for both Indlvldual
companles and the 1ndustry as a whole was stressed. 1: was agreed that a letter to
Executlve Contacts should be sent relnforclng thls polnt.
INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMITTEE
Mr. Tumlpseed presented the annual report of the Internatlonal Trade
Commlttee. A summary of his report 15 1ncluded as Exhlblt a. Key Issues addressed
1n 1995 were the pendlng trade leglslatlon and the MTN under GATT, both of whlch
will carry over 1nto 1937. In addltlon, the usuanada free trade negotlatlons are
also expected to move ahead rapldly thls year. He 1nd1cated that more companles
should get Involved 1n CMA'S trade actlvltles, because the Assoclatlon needs thelr
1nput on key Issues and because the Assoclatlon can substantlally 35515: member
companles Hlth thelr speclflc trade problems.
REGIONAL EXECUTIVE comma MEETINGS
Chalrman Clark made a prellmlnary report on the 51x reglonal Executlve
Contact meetlngs hosted by CMA'S offlcers durlng December and January 1n the
followlng Cities: Columbus, Chlcago, Phlladelphla, New York 127 and Houston. He
1nd1cated that the meetlng scheduled for Atlanta on January 22 was snowed out and
would be rescheduled for Aprll. The San Franclsco meetlng Hill tentatlvely be
rescheduled for late August 1n conjunctlon mm the meetlng of the Board 1n
Callfornla. Seventyiflve senlor Industry executlves partlclpated, together Hlth
nlneteen representatlves from 14 state chemlcal counclls.
Mr. Clark 1nd1cated the results were Very positive.
meetlngs was to:
The purpose of the
0
Reach out personally to the membershlp,
o
Acqualnt them mm cm operatlons and current program and lssues
priorities,
cm 039705
2355
0
Seek Input and recommendatlons on the future dlrectlon for the
Assoclatlonl
o
Identlfy Improvements to the organlzatlon to better meet the needs
of the membershlp,
0
Encourage more actlve member partlclpatlon 1n cm actlvltles.
He reported the feedback was Very encouraglng on the Assoclatlon and 1:: programs.
Issues of partlcular 1nterest and concern identified at the meetlngs 1ncluded
trade, envlronmental Issues mam, alr, groundwater), state lssues (Includlng
Proposltlon 557, chemophobla and Rhlneﬂilver’type Issues 1n the Unlted States.
Needs identified by the state chemlcal organlzatlon representatlves
1ncluded topidown corporate support for state affalrs actlvlty, concerns about the
avaliablllty of member company manpower to address state and local challenges, and
the need for senlor management to support thelr plant managers 1n state and local
outreach actlvltles.
Suggestlons for CMA unprovement Included the need to: provlde a sense of
prlorlty among the many Issues whlch cm addresses; unprove communlcatlon between
cm and member companles; expand cm partlclpatlon and membershlp; reach out more
to mddle and upper management; and provlde more brleflngs and orlentatlon sesslons
for new member companles or new executlve contacts.
Mr. Clark Indlcated that a more detalled report would be prepared followkg the concluslon of the Atlanta meetlng whlch Will be communlcated to all Execulve Contacts.
Followlng ms presentatlon, there was dlscusslon of the meetlngs and the
consensus was chat they were extremely Valuable and should be repeated 1n some fom
1n the future.
CLEAN SITES ma. 1:517
Mr. Traln. chalman of (:51, presented a comprehenslve report on the status
of Clean Sltes Inc. and the outlook for 1:: contlnued Viability and utility 1n the
year ahead. He 1dent1£1ed problems whlch had Inltlally slowed or Inhlblted (:51
1nvolvement and he hlghllghted a number of major successes. He 1nd1cated the
evolutlon that (:51 was undergolng as a result of the recently enacted Superfund
amendments.
Mr. Traln concluded by presentlng an overvlew of the flnanclal status and
needs of (:51 over the next three years. To meet those needs, he requested contlnui
mg flnanclal support from the chemlcal 1ndustry durlng that perlod on a reduced
basls from that provlded durlng the initial three years.
The Board Cook his request under advlsement and Indlcated that a
recommendatlon would be developed by the Executlve Commlttee durlng 1:5 meetlng
that afternoon and that the recommendatlon would be brought forward to the Board
for 1:: conslderatlon the followlng day.
The Board adjourned at 12:10 p.m. untll Tuesday, January 27.
cm 039707
2357
Tuesday, January 27, 1997
The meetlng was called to order at 3:00 5.3. by Vice Chalman Forney.
REPORT 017 THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Chalrman Sorgentl reported on the ltems dlscussed and the actlons taken
by the Executlve Commlttee on the precedlng day. Those ltems and actlons were:
0
Approved appolntments to £111 Vacancles on Varlous Assoclatlon
standlng and speclal commlttees.
0
Approved and recommended for Board actlon the Membershlp Commlttee's
report on the appllcatlon of Chemtech Industrles, Inc. for cm
membershlp.
0
Beard 3 prellmlnary report from the Flnance Commlttee on the 1997/99
Budget Process. nghllghts Included:
0
o
9
In the current budget year, 51x CMA programs were sunsetted and
the budget was balanced wlthout 1ncreaslng dues or drawlng down
reserves.
Over the past three years, cm dues have changed nzazinx,
whlle expenses have been level at $14 million.
9
Prellmlnary revlew of next year's budget requests identified
Significant new resource requlrements to respond to new and
mandated regulatory actlvlty at both Federal and State level.
9
The Flnance Commlttee will meet on February 11, 1n Washlngton,
to evaluate 1nd1v1dual Commlttee requests.
9
Chalrman Bob Kennedy has 1nv1ted and encouraged other members
of the Board to attend the February 11 meetlng.
Dlscussed further the followlng ltems from the Monday mornlng Board
meetlng".
CHEMNET/CAER/Alr Toxlcs partlclpatlon and the need to encourage
more member companles to become 1nvolved.
Agreed that the "Alr Toxlcs" program should be descrlbed as the
"Alr Quallty" program.
9
Reglonal Executlve Contact program, Atlanta meetlng to be
rescheduled 1n the sprlng, and Callfornla meetlng to be held 1n
conjunctlon Hlth the Board meetlng 1n Pebble Beach.
Approved and recommended for Board actlon:
A report of the Executlve Commlttee Llablllty Reform Work
Group,
y
9
A proposed Waste Mlnlmlzatlon program,
cm 039709
2359
A natlonal Groundwater pollcy,
A pollcy on Internatlonal Trade Natlonal Securlty Issues,
A proposed revlslon of the ANSI Standard for Chronlc Hazards
and Target Organ Labellng.
0
Beard 3 report on Dccupatlonal Dlsease Notlflcatlon and Preventlon
lssues and the proposed Gaydos/Metzenbaum leglslatlon. Approved and
recommended for Board actlon four prlnclples for developmg speclflc
leglslatlve proposals. Authorlzed the Health and Safety Commlttee
and Government Relatlons Commlttee to proceed as necessary on
speclflc language subject to revlew by the offlcers 15 needed before
the next Executlve Commlttee meetlng.
0
Approved and recommended for Board actlon a proposed schedule of
suggested member company contrlbutlons to Clean Sltes Inc. for
1997/99.
0
Approved and recommended for Board actlon a proposed resolutlon on
v.5. Savlngs Bonds.
0
Dlscussed the avaliablllty of llablllty Insurance for chemlcal
dlstrlbutors and requested the cm Insurance Commlttee m revlew the
matter and the potentlal for cm asslstance through other trade
assoclatlons.
MEMBERSHIP commm
Chalrman Caldwell advlsed that the Membershlp Commlttee had examlned the
quallflcatlons of the company llsted below and recommended 1:: electlon to member*
ship.
0N MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1: was
VOTED: That the Manufactured Products Dlvlslon of
Chemtech Industrles Inc. be elected to membershlp
1n the Assoclatlon.
ASSOCIATION ACTIVITIES
Treasurer...s Report
Mr. Herman reported that through the seven
months endlng December 31, the Assoclatlon had recelved revenues of $13,555,500 and
had 1ncurred expenses of $5,942,500. By yeariend, he projected that the A5507
elation would recelve revenues of approxlmately 513.9 million (about $150,000 under
budgem and would 1ncur expenses of approxlmately 513.9 million resultlng 1n
operatlons that are breakieven or mm a sllght contrlbutlon :9 reserves. Requests
for 1995 calendar year sales reports were mallet! m the membershlp In late December
Hlth a requested return date of January 23.
Program and Issue Developments
Mr. Roland referenced the comlete Presldent's Report contalned 1n the meetlng materlals (Exhlblt 17. He then
alled upon Dr. Cox who hlghllghted the requlrements of Tltle III of the Superfund
Reauthorlzatlon Act and Mr. Stover who gave an overvlew of the electlon results and
thelr projected unpact on the Assoclatlon...s Issues.
B
cm 039709
2359
TAX POLICY COMMITTEE
Hr. Pugh presented the annual report of the Tax Pollcy Commlttee. A
summary of his report 15 1ncluded as Exhlblt J. The major actlvlty 1n 1995 was the
enactment of the Tax Reform leglslatlon, whlch 1ncluded some posltlve provlslons
for the chemlcal 1ndustry such as Improved depreclatlon and some major negai
tlve provlslons such as the ellmlnatlon of the Investment tax credlt.
He 1nd1cated that for 1997, the commlttee antlclpated "technlcal Cori
rectlons" leglslatlon and a major regulatory effort related to the luvplementatlon
of the Tax Refom leglslatlon.
Followlng ms presentatlon, there was dlscusslon of the relatlve resource
needs 1n the tax area for 1997 and the unlque role whlch CMA'S tax program serves.
LIABILITY REFORM WORK snow
Mr. McKennon reported on the actlvltles of the Executlve Commlttee's Ad
Hoc Liability Reform Work Group. He 1nd1cated that the prlmary objectlve of the
group 15 to develop a longirange program for addresslng a range of compensatlon and
liability lssue of partlcular 1nterest to the chemlcal 1ndustry. He reported that
whlle efforts are under way on the longirange program, the work group had
assembled. at the Executlve Commlttee's request, a package of materlals and program
to address state tort refom. Followlng dlscusslon, the proposal as set forth 1n
Exhlblt K was approved.
COMMUNICATIONS commm
Mr. Holtzman presented the annual report of the Communlcatlons Commlttee
1n lleu of Mr. Thompson, who had bean unable to attend due to an unforseen problem
at the last mlnute. A summary of his report 15 Included as Exhlblt L. In his
report. Mr. Holtzman expressed the commlttee's bellef that the 1ndustry 1: 1n 3
better posltlon Hlth both the press and the publlc than 1: was one year ago. He
attrlbuted thls largely to the commltment of senlor management, the lack of any
major accldents. and the efforts of plantilevel personnel. He then detalled some
of the major developments of 1935, both Internal and external, whlch had a major
Impact on the 1ndustry's reputatlon and the 1ndustry's Issues.
The commlttees major priorities for 1997 were identified as:
n
CARR followup,
Alr toxlcs pollcy luvplementatlon,
a
State chemlcal organlzatlon asslstance,
a
Development of clear language communlcatlons,
Followlng the report, there was general dlscusslon of Varlous communlcatlon pro*
grams and lssues, such as the potentlal for greater utlllzatlon of small companles
as grassroots communlcatlon advocates. and the need to put the "toxlcs" Vs. enemy
c315 1n general 1n perspectlve. There was also dlscusslon of followup Visits mm
the edltorlal board network and of the need to communlcate m the membershlp on
warehouse safety and water runoff Issues as a result of the Basel accldent.
cm 039710
2350
PATENT AND TRADEMARK COMMITTEE
Mr. Henry presented the annual report of the Patent and Trademark Commlti
tee. A summary of his report In Included as Exhlblt M. Major Issues 1n 1995
1ncluded process patent leglslatlon, patent term restoratlon and other patent
leglslatlon. In 1937, Mr. Henry 1nd1cated that process patent leglslatlon would
remaln a prlorlty and that there would be Increased 1nternatlonal actlvlty
regardlng patents.
WASTE MINIMIZATIDN woman
Messrs. Berryman and Seay presented a proposed waste mlnlmlzatlon program
for the Assoclatlon. The objectlves of the program 1ncluded:
Better protectlon of human health and the envlronment,
Avoiding onerous leglslatlon that mandates waste reductlon,
leltlng dlsposal costs and future cleanup llablllty, and
Improvlng publlc understandlng of 1ndustry generatlon and dlsposal
practlces.
In addltlon to a posltlon statement on waste mlnlmlzatlon whlch 15 set forth 1n the
Exhibit, the effort would also Include:
An 1ndustry program to promote and 55515: member companles 1n
developlng and carrylng out waste mlnlmlzatlon programs.
Leglslatlve and regulatory advocacy support to address waste mink
mlzatlon lssues before Congress and EPA.
Measurement of waste mlnlmlzatlon progress 1n order
progress.
to document
a
Communlcatlons of member company and 1ndustry waste
actlvltles.
mlnlmlzatlon
0N MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1: was
VOTED: That the proposed waste mlnlmlzatlon
program as set forth 1n Exmm: N be approved.
NATIONAL GRovNDwATER POLICY
Messrs. Berryman, Malloch and Cunnlngham presented a proposed pollcy for
Federal groundwater leglslatlon. Mr. Mallocms presentatlon focused on the rela*
tlve roles of the Federal and state governments and the speclflc responslbllltles
that each should bear. Mr. Cunnlngham presented the leglslatlve status report and
outlook. and then outllned CMA'S strategy for the lssue 1n thls Congress. The
trategy 1ncluded plans to:
cm 039711
2351
Coalltlon Hlth other busmess groups and state government represeni
tatlves .
4
Identlfy allles 1n the Congress who have 51ml“ 1nterests,
4
Broaden the debate to commlttees 1n Congress where moderates are
strong, and
4
Be responslve to pressure for federal leglslatlon, but not to
proactlvely seek 1:5 passage.
Dlscusslon followed on the responslve nature of the proposal and the role
of the states 1n unplementlng the natlonal pollcy.
0N MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1: was
VOTED: That the proposed natlonal groundwater
pollcy as set forth 1n Exhlblt n be approved.
INTERNATIONAL TRADE NATIONAL SECURITY ISSUES PoLICy
Mr. Tumpseed presented a proposal on natlonal securlty lssues 15232 of
the Trade Expanslon Act of 19527 whlch 1: expected to be part of the omnlbus trade
mil: to be consldered by the Congress 1n 1997. Although thls has not been a
crltlcal lssue for the chemlcal 1ndustry to date, he 1nd1cated that there 15 the
llkellhood for 1ncreased use of thls Sectlon of the law 1n the future (potentlally
Hlth respect m 011 and 011 derlvatlves) and the approved posltlon would be a
useful tool for coalltlonlng purposes.
on MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1: was
VOTED: That the proposed 1nternatlonal trade
natlonal securlty Issues pollcy as set forth
1n Exhibit F be approved.
ANSI LABELING STANDARDS
Mr. Condray presented a proposal to endorse the submlsslon of the revlsed
labellng standard (ANSI 2129.1719977 for consensus adoptlon. He 1nd1cated the CMA
had been 1nvolved 1n developlng Voluntary labellng guldellnes Since 1945 and that
Since 1976, am has served as the secretarlat organlzatlon for the ANSI labellng
standard. The most Significant new aspect of the revlsed standard 15 the 1ncluslon
of labellng for delayed (chronlc) hazard and target organ/system hazards.
0N MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1: was
VOTED: That the proposed ANSI submlsslon,
as descrlbed 1n Exhlblt o. be approved.
cm 039712
2352
OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE NOTIFICATION AND PREVENTION
Hr. Condray presented a raport and recommendatlons for acC1on regardlng
pendlng occupaclonal dlsease notlflcatlon and preventlon leglslatlon 1ntroduced by
Senator Metzenbaum and Congressman Gaydos. Although leglslatlon had been proposed
by these two members 1n the last Congress, Mr, Condray reported they had Very
recently relntroduced leglslatlon whlch contalned substantlal modlflcatlons and
that our analysls of these proposals was 5:111 under way. Ha 1nd1cated that both
mus reflect the agenda of organlzed labor and are deslgned to generate lltlgatlon
based on workplace exposures.
In developmg the Assoclatlon's posltlon on thls lssue and on the partly
ular mus already Introduced, Mr. Condray proposed that four crlterla be followed:
Base the response on credlble sclence, have 1: conform as nearly as posslble to the
proactlve practlces of CMA'S member companles, make 1: polltlcally Viable, and
minimize 1:: Impact on liability and compensatlon.
The actlon of the Executlve Commlttee on thls Issue the prevlous day was
revlewed. The Executlve Commlttee had approved the crlterla llsted above, but
requested that the Health and Safety Commlttee and the Government Relatlons Commlti
tee do addltlonal work on the speclflc leglslatlve alternatlves. If pollcy
approval were requlred prior to the March Executlve Commlttee meetlng, the Execui
tlve Commlttee recommended that the offlcers be authorlzed m provlde that pollcy
overslght.
Conslderable dlscusslon followed on the speclflc provlslons In the
eglslatlon and the proposals whlch had been Included 1n the meetlng materlals. of
artlcular note was the dlscusslon on whose responslblllty 1: would be m notlfy
unpasted employees the employer's or the government's. 1: was the consensus of
the Board that the flnal leglslatlve prlnclples belng drafted by the group should
not be drawn so as to create the unpresslon that CMA was advocatlng removlng all
responslblllty for worker notlflcatlon from the employer. Employers should malni
taln. at a mmmum, the rlght m provlde the notlflcatlon, even 15 the government
ultlmately would be Involved as well. There was also dlscusslon regardlng the
dellcate nature of CMA'S partlclpatlon 1n the broadibased busmess Coalltlon on
thls iSSuE, and the necesslty for CMA m malntaln maxlmum flexlblllty for 1tself as
the leglslatlve debate evolved.
0N MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1: was
VOTED:
That the four crlterla for developlng the
Assoclatlon's posltlon on worker notlflcatlon
leglslatlon. as set forth above. be endorsed
and that the Health and Safety Commlttee and
Government Relatlons Commlttee further pursue
the development of speclflc leglslatlve
alternatlves.
That the offlcers be authorlzed m provlde
pollcy overslght 15 approval of those
alternatlves 15 requlred prior to the March
Executlve Commlttee meetlng.
cm 039713
CLEAN SITES ma,
FUNDING
Followlng up on Mr. Traln's presentatlon the prevlous day, Mr. McBrayer
presented a proposal for contlnued member company Voluntary support of Clean Slces.
Th1: proposal had been endorsed the prevlous day by the Executlve Commlttee. There
was conslderable dlscusslon of the proposal, (151's substantlve and flnanclal
perfomance 1n 1:: flrst three years, and Varlous other approaches for csx to
address 1:: budget and flnanclal needs.
on MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1: was
VOTED. (with one abstentlom That the followlng Board
resolutlon be adopted:
Assoclatlon members are urged to contrlbute to (:51 for
flscal year 1997/99 accordlng m a reduced "falr share"
schedule llsted below. Contlnued contrlbutlons by member
companles to (:51 are endorsed by cm Hlth the understand?
mg that the total of CMA member company contrlbutlons
Will be matched by contrlbutlons from other sources. 1:
was also understood that 15 Clean Sltes contlnues to
develop as planned, the organlzatlon Hill agaln request
flnanclal support from cm member companles 1n flscal
1999/99 and 1999/90, but at a reduced rate deslgned to
yleld $1.1 mllllon and 5.7 mllllon, respectlvely, com?
pared Hlth the 51.5 mllllon sought for flscal 1997/99.
These second and thlrd year requests will be revlewed by
the Executlve Commlttee and Board 1n each year and would
be evaluated at that time based on thelr merlts.
Recommended Contrlbutlon Schedule
Annual Member Company
Chemlcal Sales
Over $3 Bllllon
sun 7 750 Mllllon
Under 50 M
(:51 "Falr Share" Contrlbutlon
1995/97
(for reference only)
$325, nun
215,000
110,000
en, nun
55,000
35, nun
13, nun
5,500
2,000
1997/99
5125, nun
e2, nun
42,000
30, nun
2n, nun
14, nun
5,000
2,500
1,000
Addltlonal Infomatlon on (151': proposed revenue sources and projected contrlbutlon
schedules are set forth 1n Exhlblt R.
cm 039714
2354
SAVINGS BONDS
At the request of Mr. Henske of 01m who 15 the chalrman of the chemlcal
1ndustry savlngs bond campalgn thls year, the Board was asked to conslder a resolu
clon urging member company support for the savlng bond program.
on MOTION. duly made and seconded, 1: was
VOTED; That the resolutlon on savlngs bonds,
as set forth 1n Exhlblt s, be adopted.
The meetlng was adjourned at 11:00 am.
Charles w. Van Vlack
Vice presmennsecretary
ertlfled correct;
Chalrman of the Board
cm 039715
exhlblt 3
REPORT 017
ursmmmmu COMMITTEE
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Two prlmary lssues hava surfaced durlng 1995 relatlve to the
dlstrlbutlon of chemlcals that demand a great deal of attentlon by the
Dlstrlbutlon Commlttee. These are chemlcal transportatlon rlsk
management and nonitarlff trade barrlers affectlng the 1nternatlonal
dlstrlbutlon of chemlcals.
1: has become readlly apparent that the chemlcal manufacturlng
eoonunlty must take a more proactlve role 1n identifying and
compensatlng for the many Varlables that 1nfluence the safe
transportatlon of chemlcals. State and local offlclals,
envlronmentallsts. and congresslonal overslght commlttees are among the
many groups that have expressed concern over the potentlal rlsks
assoclated mm chemlcal transportatlon. The Dlstrlbutlon Commlttee
has Jolned forces mm representatlves from the rallroad and trucklng
1ndustr1es to assess the rlsks of movlng dlfferent types of chemlcals.
Durlng tha upcomlng year rlsk management models will be developed that
1nd1v1dual chemlcal companles can use to work Hlth thelr carrlers 1n
identifying the safest posslble means of transportlng thelr products.
The past year has also brought on a great deal of actlvlty 1n the
1nternatlonal regulatory arena whlch has had a Significant 1mpact on
the dlstrlbutlon of chemlcals. The Distrlbutlon Commlttee has been
1nstrumental 1n tha development of marlne pollutlon requlrements that
guard agalnst the dumplng of chemlcal wastes at sea. Fortunately,
because of the Dlstrlbutlon Commlttee's efforts the 1nternatlonal
requlrements dld not go so far as m curtall 1nternatlonal chemlcal
transportatlon, or make 1: so expenslve for v.5. shlppers that they
would be put at a competitive dlsadvantage mm forelgn chemlcal
companles.
am also played a major role 1n gettlng v. 5. government offlclals
to 1ntervene 1n the efforts of forelgn governments to reserve cargo to
thelr natlons flag Vessels, thus reduclng competltlon and creatlng a
serlous luvpedlment m the safe transportatlon of chemlcals.
The Natlonal Chemlcal Response and Informatlon Center (NCRIC) has
gone beyond the 1ndustry's expectatlons 1n fulfllllng the needs of
emergency responders and the publlc for chemlcal related 1nfomatlon.
cammmc, whlch celebrated 1:5 flfteenth annlversary, has seen a
Significant growth 1n actlvltles over 1935. Calls rose from 34,000
inquiries 1n 1995 to 41,000 1n 1936, a 231 1ncrease. cammm also
1ntroduced the Hazard Infomatlon Transmlsslon System whlch enables
emergency responders to access hard copy chemlcal 1nformatlon Via a
computer llnk. The CHEMNET program, the 1ndustry's flrst all
encompasslng mutual 31:: network, has contlnued to grow 1n slze and
unportance over the past year.
1: was recognlzed by Secretary of
Transportatlon Ellzabeth Dole durlng the 1995 Spllls Conference as a
major 1ndustry initiative to 55515: emergency responders 1n effectlvely
handllng chemlcal transportatlon accldents.
The Name Landlng lerary has also been tremendously successful.
Over 123,000 emergency responders have had the opportunlty m Vlew the
Videos. The chemlcal 1ndustry has recelved countless praise for thls
major effort to traln emergency responders on the proper technlques for
handllng chemlcal emergencles.
The Chemlcal Referral Center responded to over 11,000 inquiries
from the publlc for noniemergency health and safety 1nformatlon about
chemlcals. An 1ndex of approxlmately 110,000 products has been
developed to 35515: the Chemlcal Referral Center 1n qulckly identifying
the approprlate companles to refer callers to. Th1: servlce 1:
expected to contlnue to 1ncrease 1n 1mportance over the comlng year as
states and local communltles unplement the rlghtitoiknow provlslons of
the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorlzatlon Act.
mule a great deal of the Dlstrlbutlon Commlttee's energles were
dlrected at unprovlng the safe transportatlon of chemlcals durlng 1935,
the Commlttee contlnued to promote competltlon and costieffectlve
measures for the dlstrlbutlon of chemlcals. The Commlttee was
successful 1n gettlng the Interstate Commerce Commlsslon m overrule
the efforts of a major rallfoad to flag out of 1:: common carrler
responslbllltles to move certaln chemlcals. The Commlttee also played
a key role 1n helplng to shape practlcal rules for rallroad cost
recovery practlces. CMA also 1ntervened 1n 3 case before the ma 1n an
effort to establlsh a favorable precedent for competitive access
remedles for shlppers captlve m a smgle rallroad.
The reauthorlzatlon of the Hazardous Materlals Transportatlon Act
dld not occur durlng 1995 but 1: 1: expected to recelve conslderable
attentlon 1n 1937. The Dlstrlbutlon Commlttee took advantage of thls
time to promote the CMA posltlon adopted at last January's Board
meetlng. CMA Hill contlnue to take a lead role 1n the development of
reasonable leglslatlon governlng the transportatlon of chemlcals.
cm
2
cm 039717
EXHIBIT B
CHEMNET MEMBERSHIP
Problem
The CHEMNET program currently has 79 members. To 1nsure an effectlve
program to reduce the rlsk of chemlcal shlpments and negatlve publlclty
from accldents more CMA members should become actlve members of cammm.
Dbjectlve
To gain addltlonal membershlp 1n CHEMNET from the cm membershlp,
partlcularly addltlonal subscrlber members.
Background
The CHEMNET program was approved by the Board 1n March 1935. The
program began operatlon 1n November 1995 mm 52 members. Since that
time only 27 more companles have jolned. The program has been
actlvated 35 tunes 1n 1:: flrst 14 months of operatlon and has proved
to be a Vlable system to 1nsure expert asslstance at the scene of
serlous 1nc1dents.
The current membershlp 15:
Partlclpants:
Subscrlbers:
Alr Products & Chemlcals. Inc.
AlllerkSlgnal, Inc.
Amerlcan Cyanamld Company
Amoco Chemlcals Company
ARCD Chemlcal Company
Badlsche Cozporatlon
Borden Chemlcal Dlvlslon
Borgmarner Chemlcals, Inc.
Cabot Corporatlon
Celanese Cozporatlon
Degussa Corporatlon
Dow Chemlcal Company
Eastman Kodak Company
Exxon Chemlcal Amerlcas
Flna 011 and Chemlcal
ma Corporatlon
BFGoodrlch Company
In Amerlcas Inc.
Mobay Corporatlon
Mobll Chemlcal Company
Monsanto Company
Nalco Chemlcal Company
Nepara. Inc.
Dccldental Chemlcal Cozporatlon
01m Cozporatlon
Phillips 55 Company
Akzo Chemle Amerlca
Ardrox. Inc.
Bofors Nobel Inc.
31> Chemlcals Amerlcas
Caschem Inc.
Chevron USA
Deepwater, Inc.
Dlamond Shamrock Chemlcals Co.
Engelhard Corporatlon
General Alum & Chemlcal
General Chemlcal Corp.
Great Lakes Chemlcal Corp.
Harshaw/Flltrol
Hercules Inc.
Interez Inc.
Kalser Alumlnum £1 Chemlcal
KayiFrles, Inc.
Kerrmasee Chemlcal Corp.
Lonza Inc.
Malllnckrodt. Inc.
Merlchem Company
Morton Tmokol, Inc.
NL Industrles, Inc.
Polysar lelted (Canada)
Relchhold Chemlcals. Inc.
Rellly Tar & Chemlcal Corp.
cm 039719
Polysar lelted m.s.y
PPG Industrles, Inc.
Rohm and Haas Company
shall Chemlcal Company
Standard 011.chem1cal Company
Stauffer Chemlcal Company
Syntax Chemlcals. Inc.
Texaco Chemlcal Company
vmon Carblde Corporatlon
Velslcol Chemlcal Cozporatlon
Virginia Chemlcals (V15 Calanesey
Vulcan Materlals Company
The Shepherd Chemlcal Company
Standard Chlorlne Chemlcal Co.
Sterllng Chemlcal, Inc.
Sun Reflnlng and Marketlng
SunDlln Chemlcal Company
Troy Chemlcal Corporatlon
was Chemlcal
Unlroyal Chemlcal Company
Unlted States Steel
The Upjohn Company
Vlsta Chemlcal Company
Wacker Chemlcals (U.S.A.7
Wltco Corporatlon
Recommendatlons
That 01A members he urged to conslder joining the CHEMNET program,
elther as partlclpants or subscrlbers.
Impact
Money:
The system offers substantlal savlngs m the members because
1: allows access to emergency response teams wlthout
extenslve malntenance costs.
Company Personnel
Staff Personnel
No change
No change
Actlon Requlred
Approval of Recommendatlon.
am
am 039719
EXHIBIT a
Report of the
Texas Chemlcal Councll
Dbjectlve
Revlew the status of key lssues and present recommendatlons to 1mprove
overall effectlveness of the chemlcal 1ndustry 1n Texas.
Background
0
Texas Chemlcal Councll (TCC7 has a membershlp of 94 companles and has
effectlvely represented chemlcal 1ndustry Interests 1n Texas for more
than 34 years.
Texas 15 1mportant m the chemlcal 1ndustry, and the chemlcal
1ndustry 15 unportant to Texas
0
0
Texas leads the chemlcal 1ndustry 1n value of chemlcal shlpments.
Our 1ndustry 1n Texas 15 the largest 1n value added and results 1n
the employment of 370,000 Texans.
Tea 15
nlcal:
member
though
effectlve because of the mghly competent management, tech?
communlcatlons and government relatlons talent provlded by
companles worklng closely mm a respected, exceptlonally able
small staff.
Commlttees are actlve 1n safety, health, CAER, envlronmental
conservatlon (alr. water and solld wasteh taxes, energy and
publlc affalrs.
High credlblllty has allowed ch to play a promlnent role 1n
1nfluenc1ng leglslatlon and regulatlons 1n areas such as nghtitoKnow, hazardous waste management, pemlts and alr toxlcs.
We are unlque 1n our successful development of a broad based grass*
roots support organlzatlon conslstlng of suppllers and servlce flrms
along Hlth manufacturers that are ch members.
ACIT, the Assoclatlon of Chemlcal Industry of Texas, now four
years old Hlth almost 300 member companles, was formed mm the
speclflc objectlves of defendlng the chemlcal 1ndustry and helplng
1: prosper.
Durlng the Superfund debate ACIT members effectlvely communlcated
chemlcal 1ndustry posltlons Hlth the Texas delegatlon, demonstrai
ting 1:5 potentlal for 1nfluenc1ng the polltlcal process and
impacting publlc opinion.
CMA 039720
2
o
The busmess cllmate 1n Texas contlnues m be favorable but 15
threatened by the deficit 1nduced search for new taxes.
0
As a result of competitive pressures, Texas chemlcal 1ndustry
employment has decllned 2m Since 1980.
We have been able to successfully use the jobs lssue thus far to
counter the thrust toward hlgher taxes.
1: has been necessary to ralse ch dues (based on employee roll
county to malntaln program effectlveness durlng perlod of
decllnlng employment.
Goals for 1997
A. Push for state budgetary restralnt mm minimum need for new taxes
and equltable basls for those that occur.
Wlthout a tax 1ncrease Texas faces a blennlum budget deficit of
four to Elva bllllon dollars out of a total budget of around 37
bllllon dollars.
Governor Clements 1: expected to push for budget cuts conslstent
mm campalgn pledge; Leglslature reluctant to make deep cuts
desplte fact that 1ncreases over last decade are far 1n excess of
1nflatlon and populatlon growth.
Chemlcal 1ndustry represents a convenlent target for new taxes
mm several proposals almed at broadenlng the sales tax base to
1nclude energy, manufacturlng materlals, contract labor and
1ntrastate frelght.
Texas Comptroller...s proposal would ralse chemlcal 1ndustry taxes
by 210 million dollars per year, whlch represents a 2mm 1ncrease
1n state taxes.
Lobbylng effort has been effectlvely supported by Tee member
company surveys and publlcatlons whlch dramatlze the dlsastrous
effect such actlons would have on our 1ndustry, employment and the
state's economy.
In addltlon to strong grassroots lobbylng we are worklng to
strengthen coalltlons among other trade assoclatlons, encouraglng
the Leglslature to free up dedlcated funds and seeklng to hold the
llne on agency budgets and fees.
CMA 039721
B. Galn passage of meanlngful tort reform leglslatlon.
Texas awn Justlce League (TCJL7 was establlshed mm ch as a
foundlng member and contlnulng force to help brlng about recom 1n
state tort laws.
There are over 4m TCJL members 1nclud1ng cltles, rallroads,
englneers, newspapers, chemlcal companles, hospltals, school
dlstrlcts, bullders. and many other busmesses and professlons.
Leglslatlve objectlves 1nclude: m 1n1tlatlon of comparatlve
responslblllty 1n cases of jolnt and several llablllty; 127
llmltatlons on nonieconomlc and punltlve damages and dlsposltlon
of awards; (37 llmltatlons on lawyer contlngency fees; (47 pro*
hlbltlons agalnst Venue snoppmg; 157 allowance of collateral
source offset and use of periodic payments 1n lleu of lump sum
awards; (67 excluslon of praijudgment 1nterest; m llmltatlons on
llablllty of offlcers and dlrectors of noniproflt organlzatlons;
and 187 reduced statute of llmltatlons for mlnors.
Accompllshlng such refoms Will be no small task, Since passage 1n
the state senate requlres a twoithlrds majorlty Vote, and there 15
fomldable opposltlon to tort reform by the Texas Trlal Lawyers.
Developlng grassroots support 15 crltlcally 1mportant to success
and conslsts of efforts to educate employees and publlc, fomatlon
of local steerlng commlttees, recrultlng new TCJL members and
targetlng Varlous leglslators reluctant to accept tort refoms.
Even Hlth leglslatlve success contlnulng effort must be made to
elect responslble judges who will honor mandate and preserve
refoms.
c. Galn passage of leglslatlon supportlng use of 1ndustry cogenerated
power
ch has fostered fomatlon of a broad based advocacy group called
LECT (Lower Electrlcal Costs for Texan57 to dlscourage
constructlon of unnecessary hlgh cost power plants and facllltate
wheellng of lower cost cogenerated power to other areas of state
1n need of electrlclty.
Selllng polnts are lower electrlcal rates achleved through more
efflclent use of energy and avolded constructlon costs and
preservatlon of jobs by keeplng the manufacturlng sector
competitive.
(:sz 039722
Utility companles are strongly opposed to any change that affects
thelr monopollstlc control and ability to generate 1ncome from new
1nvestments and recelve favorable rate base treatment on Very
expenslve nuclear power plant constructlon nearlng completlon.
Wllllng m dlscuss lssues Hlth utility companles 1n an effort to
reach reasonable agreement; negotlated or leglslatlve success will
be dlfflcult to achleve and 15 largely dependent on 1ndustry's
resolve to persevere.
D. Other Key objectlves
Have Texas emergency response commlsslon appolnted on a basls
conslstent Hlth CARR utlllzlng exlstlng worklng relatlonshlp.
lelt control of air toxlcs to regulatlons that rely prlmarlly
on responslble self management by 1ndustry.
Support 1mplementatlon of cm alr toxlcs program and contlnued
progress of CAER 1nclud1ng expanslon 1nto transportatlon area.
Hold chemlcal rlsk communlcatlon semlnar/workshop mm medla,
agencles, envlronmentallsts and publlc 1nterest groups as €07
sponsors.
Achleve reasonable State Implementatlon Plan for ozone attalnment
and avold costly renewable permit provlslon m be consldered by
Leglslature.
Satlsfactorlly settle Slerra Club sum over Texas water quallty
standards whlch TCC 15 1nvolved 1n as an 1ntervenor.
Be prepared to deal Hlth posslble leglslatlon and further
regulatlon on groundwater protectlon and hazardous materlals
transportatlon.
Galn recognltlon of need for more reasonable agency enforcement
pollcles.
A5515: member companles 1n complylng mm new DSHA/BLS
1njury/1llness recordkeeplng guldellnes and contlnue to spearhead
1ndustry efforts to flght drug abuse.
CMA 039723
Recommendatlons to Improve Chemlcal Industry Support 1n Texas
0
Support plant managers 1n thelr government relatlons and publlc affalrs
actlvltles.
Stay 1n touch mm lssues.
Acknowledge the unportance of Plant Manager's role 1n state and
publlc affalrs.
Make top executlves avaliable to dlscuss key lssues mm state
offlclals.
Provlde adequate technlcal resourclng so that we can malntaln
1ndustry credlblllty and contlnue to favorably unpact
leglslatlon/regulatlon.
0
Join ACIT and TCJL 15 not presently 1nvolved and encourage local
management to recrult suppllers and customers; consclously evaluate
your company's 1nterest 1n LECT and act accordlngly.
o
Provlde 1ncreased PAC funds to support electlon of quallfled
conservathE, busmess orlented candldates.
o
Conslder maklng contrlbutlons to ch's PAC 7 FREEPAC or at least
work Hlth ch 1n coordlnatlng effectlve use of 1ndustry Hide
funds.
A5515: state CIC's 1n deflnlng 1ndustry economlc unpact of
envlronmental lssues mm emphasls on jobs and competltlveness.
Actlons Requlred
Board endorsement of the thrust of these recommendatlons.
CMA
CMA 039724
EXHIBIT u
upon 017
health and safety commlttee
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The Health and Safety Commlttee 135:7 developed effectlve
leglslatlve, regulatory and member servlces progress that Vera hlghly
successful durlng 1935. In Vorklng mm other parts of CMA'S
organlzatlon. the Commlttee was able to achleve Significant unprovement
1n proposed federal leglslatlon and regulatlons. 1: was also
successful 1n promotlng Voluntary Inltlatlves that enhanced CMA'S and
the chemlcal 1ndustry's lmage among the publlc.
on the leglslatlve front, the Commlttee was able to 1mprove the
health provlslons contalned 1n the new Superfund lav by puttlng forward
alternatlves better sulted to meet the 1ntent of Congress. These
1ncluded the communlty rlghtitoiknow, emergency preparedness and
healthirelated authorltles provlslons. In general, these conform to
CMA'S adopted pollcles and, 1n many eases, exlstlng company practlces.
Slgnlflcantly, we made convlnclng arguments agalnst proposed publlc
compensatlon provlslons. The Comlttee also put forward defenslble
pollcles on worker notlflcatlon leglslatlon proposed by Congress and
the State of Callfornla, precludlng nev leglslatlon.
The Commlttee responded to proposed regulatlons under several
health, safety and envlronmental laws. Under EPA'S TSCA program, for
example, the Commlttee ﬁlled comments on proposed test guldellnes,
1nventory update, regulatlon of 1ntermedlates, comprehenslve assessment
1nfomatlon and EPA penalty pollcles. Under OSHA, CMA commented on
hazard cotmnunlcatlon training standards, laboratory substances
protectlon and process safety revlev, among others.
Th1: past year, the Commlttee sought opportunltles to Inltlate
programs to beneflt CMA'S members. CAER. for example, made Significant
strldes to cement the program throughout our Industry and many other
chemlcal user 1ndustr1es. We worked to ensure that: EPA and state
agencles and organlzatlons recognlzed and endorsed CARR as the
prlnclpal alternatlve for chemlcal Industry emergency preparedness. In
addltlon to overseelng the CAER program, BSC worked closely Hlth OSHA
and the Bureau of Labor Statlstlcs to adopt unlform guldellnes for
reportlng occupatlonal injuries and lllnesses. The Commlttee's efforts
proved largely successful 1n deallng mm osaA's nev altatlon and
penalty pollcy.
In 1936, the Commlttee also held numerous workshops to keep cm
members Incomed on unportant health and safety Issues. A quarterly
newsletter was started to supplement speclflc communlcatlons m CMA'S
membershlp.
For 1937, a strong emphasls on health and compensatlon programs
will be the focus of the Health and Safety Commlttee's actlvltles. To
manage the many health Issues faclng our 1ndustry, the Commlttee Will
need strong member company support and 1nvolvement of company health
professlonals 1n 1:: programs.
CMA 039725
1
x1. woman ovmwmw AND OUTLOOK
Th1: report marks the second year chat: Che Health and Safety
Commlttee has reported to CMA'S Board of Dlrectors Since January 1935,
when the Board consolldated two standlng commlttees and two speclal
Executlve Commlttee task groups 1nto thls standlng commlttee.
Conslderable effort was made 1n last year's report to descrlbe the
functlonal matrlx adopted by as: organlzatlon chat was put 1n place to
handle the dlverse klnds of health, safety and compensatlon lssues chac
confront the chemlcal Industry today. The lssues we saw thls past year
tested the organlzatlon, and our posltlve results indicate that 1:
functloned well.
In 1935. the Health and Safety Commlttee was faced Hlth
Significant leglslatlve threats contalned In the federal Superfund and
worker notlflcatlon mus. Both proposed requlrements that would
dramatlcally change the future course of chemlcal companles' health,
safety and compensatlon programs. The Superfund mus drafted In early
1995 would have requlred speclflc process safety systems In chemlcal
plants, extenslve reportlng of chemlcal mass balance Informatlon, and
broad expenslve health programs for people Hlth llttle or no
Significant exposure. In addltlon, a federal compensatlon system mm
changes to state tort lav: was proposed. 1: would have greatly
expanded companles' liability potentlal.
The Superfund amendments Signed 1nto lav reflect marked
1mprovement5. 1n part due to CMA'S substltutlng a more sound
alternatlve. Th1: approach typifies the commlttee's method of
advocatlng chemlcal company posltlons before Congress and elsewhere.
The Tltle III requlrements that ultlmately passed has narrower
reportlng requlrements, bullds on the OSHA Hazard Communlcatlon
Standard. and embodles CMA'S Communlty Awareness and Emergency Response
(cum program. 1: leaves exlstlng tort lav 1ntact, does not provlde
for a new admlnlstratlve compensatlon program, and creates a
healthibased assessment program conslstent Hlth sound chemlcal Industry
practlces used today. All 1n all, the results of the commlttee's
prlorlty attentlon and 1:5 approach to these portlons of Superfund
reauthorlzatlon ylelded Significant beneflts results to our Industry.
Leglslatlon m classlfy workers 1n mgn healthirlsk groups was
successfully postponed durlng 1935. The Gaydos and Metzenbaum worker
notlflcatlon mm: were not taken up by the 99th Congress for flnal
conslderatlon. The Health and Safety Committee artlculated flaws In
the mus' approaches and Impacts on workplace health programs, and
argued for expandlng exlstlng requlrements of osaA's Hazard
Communlcatlon Standard 1nstead.
Success In postponlng these two leglslatlve initiatives resulted
from strong teamwork among the Commlttee...s task groups, but equally
1mportant, among the members of other departments and commlttees.
Close coordlnatlon mm Government Relatlons. Legal and Communlcatlons
Department staffs and company representatlves was essentlal 1n the
success of our program alternatlves 1n the leglslatlve debate.
CMA 039725
1
2
Whlle the Commlttee gave leglslatlve Inltlatlves a hlgh prlorlty
1n 1936, 1: devoted most of 1:5 effort to respondlng to government
regulatory programs. Here too, the Health and Safety Commlttee
employed a strategy of recommendlng better alternatlves to proposed
regulatlons to Improve the flnal outcomes. mm the Dccupatlonal
Safety and Health Admlnlstratlon, for example, the Conalttee worked
closely mm the agency to develop better occupatlonal 1njury and
lllness reportlng guldellnes. 1: was also able to work Hlth OSHA m
1mprove 1:: records inspection program and altatlon pollcy through a
collaboratlve CMA/DSHA educatlonal program on recordkeeplng for cm
members. By worklng Hlth the agency to 1dentlfy 1:: program needs and
concerns and advocatlng our members" Interest, the Coulttee was able to
defuse the troubllng OSHA pollcy on recordkeeplng flnss that began mm
the unprecedented 51.3 mllllon fine at Instltute, West Virginia.
At E?A. the CoolBlctee focused on the agency's unbendlng convlctlon
that chemlcal substances, 1n general, have 1nsufflc1ent toxlcologlcal
testlng to evaluate thelr rlsk to health and the envlronment. The
Agency also belleved that the regulatory process under the Toxlc
Substances Control Act (TSCA7 was too blow and cumbersome to address
adequately the problem. Envlronmental Interest groups concurred Hlth
E?A. In evaluatlng thls Situation, as: looked at how 1: mlght resolve
baslc concerns about the TSCA program wlthout unfavorable Congresslonal
changes to the law. 1: concluded that partlclpatlng 1n an 1nformal
dlalogue group mm all 1nterested partles could successfully lower the
concern. The approach worked, resultlng 1n consensus agreements on
negotlated testlng and followup reportlng for new"chem1cals. In
addltlon. the process of 1nfomal dlscusslon allowed tradltlonal
chemlcal 1ndustry antagonlsts to gain a better understandlng of our
concerns and needs. 1: has opened communlcatlon channels further mm
the envlronmental Interest groups and EPA staff. Informal dlalogue
mm tradltlonal opposlng partles remalns an Important Commlttee
advocacy tool.
Whlle the Conalttee sought to gain understandlng from Interest
groups and agency staff, 1: spent conslderable effort 1n communlcatlng
m cm members. 1: 1n1tlated a.guarterly newsletter on health and
safety Issues, whlch has qulckly become "must... readlng for corporate
regulatory affalrs managers. Periodic 1nfomatlonal meetlngs,
1nclud1ng a program at the annual Chemlcal Industry Conference, are
also supported strongly by BSC. In addltlon, the Commlttee
slgnlflcantly 1ncreased the number of workshops, semlnars and
roundtables that 1: sponsored. Topics 1ncluded CARR Implementatlon,
process safety analysls, and drug control programs for the workplace.
About a dozen such meetlngs gave CMA members 1nvaluable 1nformatlon
about governmental programs, member company practlces, methods for
protectlng workers and the conanmlty, and operatlng facllltles safely.
Meetlng program needs of other parts of CMA'S organlzatlon has
also been a Commlttee priority. Close tles Hlth the Dlstrlbutlon and
Envlronmental Management Conslttees, for example, 15 essentlal for
maintaining conslstency 1n our health and safety pollcles for the
1ndustry. Many of the challenges faclng these commlttees are drlven by
the publlc's concern about health effects from exposure to substances
chat we transport or release 1nto the envlronment. Hsc belleves 1: 15
essentlal that we avold Inconslstency 1n our health pollcy that could
CMA 039727
3
undemme CMA'S credlblllty and effectlveness as the chlef chemlcal
Industry trade assoclatlon. 1:. therefore, 15 dlllgent 1n
collaboratlng closely Hlth 1:5 CMA counterparts and ensurlng that
posltlons on both federal and state regulatory initiatives are
conslstent. Coordlnatlon mm CMA'S state affalrs program 15 monlto-d
routlnely as a result.
A survey of last year's Commlttee actlvltles and programs and a
look at what has ahead 1nd1cates the Health and Safety Comlttee w 11
llkely threat a majorlty of 1:5 efforts at addresslng health cones n5.
To help answer Comunlty concerns, the Comlttee will place mgn
prlorlty on the CARR program. The program has become even more
1mportant m the chemlcal 1ndustry mm Superfund reauthorlzatlon
Since emergency preparedness programs 1n consunltles are now reg red
by lav. CAER serves as a Vehlcle for communlty compllance mm t a new
Tltle III (emergency responsey requlrements. 1: also has created a
useful communlcatlons network for companles' response to ocher -cal
concerns, such as health unpacts of envlronmental releases. The CARR
network. therefore. will play an 1mportant role 1n unplementlng CMA'S
Alr Toxlcs Control Program at the local level durlng 1937.
Health concerns about employees', exposure to chemlcals 1n the
workplace has already surfaced as a key lssue for the comlng yar. Two
mus 1ntroduced the flrst day of the new 100th Congress will hazpen
the Congress' overslght on worker notlflcatlon and medlcal
survelllance, and could result 1n new leglslatlon to address orkplace
health concerns. The comlttee Hill, as a result. spend Slgnl lean:
effort 1n developmg and recomendlng leglslatlve pollcy on
occupatlonal dlsease assessment control, and compensatlon. I Will
also look for opportunltles to recomend the 1n1tlatlon of auroprlate
worker health programs that could serve as models for membe s of the
chemlcal 1ndustry, or that regulatory agencles have envlslo ed for the
future. Health concerns will llkely be the focus of the denate 1n TSCA
reauthorlzatlon thls year as well, whlch Will also requlre HSC'S
prlorlty attentlon.
As has been the case tradltlonally, the bulk of HSC'S resurces
Will be dlrected toward regulatory response. New authorlt provlded to
EPA and m the Agency for Toxlc Substances and Dlsease Relstry
1n the reauthorlzed Superfund law will greatly expand th Comlttee's
workload. Much work Will be needed to ensure that Implemntlng
regulatlons are reasonable, effectlve, and not excesslvely costly.
Commenclng on regulatlons under TSCA and DHSA Is llkely to represent
the remalnlng bulk of the comlttee's regulatory actlvlt es. Both
agencles have Indlcated thelr 1ntent to step up the pa - of thelr
regulatory programs.
The Comlttee 15 confldent that 1: 15 organlzed well to meet the
challenges faclng 1: 1n 1937. A5 mm most organlzatl- 5, resources
will play an unportant role 1n whether 1: can successully carry out
1:: programs. Especlally crltlcal to the Comlttee's scaess 15 actlve
partlclpatlon of company experts, partlcularly Vlth nalth sclence and
health pollcy expertlse. The recent new leglslatlon, plus contlnued
expanslon of exlstlng agency programs, will requlre, more than ever
beforE. added CMA member company support for 1nvolv g 1:: health
professlonals 1n the Health and Safety Comlttee's pograms.
CMA
CMA 039729
EXHIBIT E
Alr Toxlca Control Pollcy
Interlm Report on Membershlp Survey Results
Background
The Alr Toxlcs Control Pollcy was adopted by the MA Board of
Dlrectors on January 23, 1995 as part of a long tandlng
commltment by CMA member companles to operate fa 111mg: 1n a
safe and responslble manner.
Slnce the pollcy was adopted, the Assoclatlon h.s taken
Significant steps to 35515: members 1n thelr 1 lemsntatlon of
the pollcy and to prepare for leglslatlve advo -cy on the issue.
At 1:: September 1995 meetlng, the CMA Board 0 Dlrectors
approved a survey of the membershlp to evaluat where we stand
on the luvplementatlon of the pollcy, 1dentlfy ddltlonal needs
of members and prepare for the 1997799 leglsl.t1ve debates.
Survey
The survey document was sent on October 31, ~95 by Mr. Roland
m the members' executlve contacts asklng :h.: the 1nformatlon
be returned by November 25, 1935.
responses have been recelved mm approxlma -ly 100 members not
respondlng.
Indlvldual contacts were made Hlth those 51 ms not
respondlng, and a second letter from Mr. R- and 1: scheduled to
be mallet! early thls month requestlng a prnmpt response.
The prellmlnary results of the survey 1nd1 ate that
0
Most responders have a program that track- the cm
pollcy and most of those programs exlste before the
pollcy was adopted.
The programs have been
strengthened Since the pollcy was adopts.
o
The programs of most responders current y are 1n place
or are underway for all facilities um , 1n the
aggregate, represent over 950 facllltl-s 1n all states
except North and South Dakota.
Slxteen states have 20
or more facllltles representlng 95% o the total.
0
Almost all respondents use modellng .r englneerlng
technlques to conduct unpact assessm-nts. Very few
conduct actual measurements.
0
Most respondents 1nd1cated that a V.r1ety of
actlvltles are underway to reduce a lsslons mm most
of these actlvltles belng strength. ed as opposed to
1n1tlated 1n the last two years.
CMA 039729
2
0
There 15 a strong correlatlon of he accldental
release actlvltles under the pol Cy to the CARR
program.
0
Communlcatlons mm outslde gro s are evldent 1n the
accldental release area Hlth les or no communlcatlon
to date for process emlsslons.
0
Most company programs do not adress transportatlon
actlvltles.
o
The evaluatlon of cm perfom.nce 1n unplementlng the
pollcy 15 rated by the respo ants at 3 m 4 Hlth the
hlghest posslble ratlng beln 5.
E'uture Needs
The survey responses 1nd1ca - the need for support or
opportunltles for unprovemet 1n two prlnclple categorles
flrst. educatlon and tralnl my support (semlnars, workshops,
addltlonal materlal, etc.) and second, communlcatlons (better
understandlng of program gals and needs and asslstance on
communlcatlon :echmquesy .
Th re have been some fund. ental lssues ralsed 1n responses.
Small r ﬁlms have asked or a system to prioritize thelr
efforts and address what hey percelve as "small quantlty
low rlsk" Situations.
In addltlon, there 15 a ecurrlng theme
of "t 11 me what I must -o to comply." am has not provlded
such detalls 1n the pas and none are currently planned 1n thls
program.
Concluslon
The prellmlnary result 1nd1cate that there 15 a Significant
amount of actlvlty undrway by members 1n the area covered by
the pollcy.
A more complete respo 5e 15 needed to assess the
ow r311 1mpact of the pollcy upon the chemlcal 1ndustry.
As soon as the flnal urvey results are avaliable, they will be
provlded to the Boar and the membershlp as well as
1ncozporated 1nto an advocacy programs.
Identlfled needs ar-
currently bemg eva uated and 1ncorporated 1n planned
actlvltles.
Actlon Requested
None.
For 1nfomatlon on y.
CMA
CMA 039730
EXHIBIT F
SPECIAL ENERGY AI ISDRY snow
INTERIM upon on ACTIVITIES AND STATUS 0F
ENERGY AND PETRD HEMICAL FEEDSTDCK ISSUES
Background
on Aprll 1, 193, the am Board approved the Flnance and Executlve
Commlttees' re -mmendatlon to sunset the Energy Commlttee and related
program expens-s as of May 31, 1935. To contlnue to monltor and
evaluate energ and related petrochemlcal feedstock lssues affectlng
the entlre Che leal 1ndustry, the Executlve Commlttee authorlzed
fomatlon of he Speclal Energy Advlsory Group 15mm.
1: was to
operate m:n- t any Significant due576unded resources of cm. The SEAG
15 hereby prsentlng an interim report on 1:: actlvltles and the status
of energy an petrochemlcal feedstock lssues. As part of the Flnance
Commlttee's evlew of program priorities for the 1997/99 budget, the
Flnance Co ‘ lttee Hill revlew the actlvltles of the group and the
status of e ergy lssues and make a recommendatlon m the Executlve
Commlttee . elther contlnue, expand or sunset the SEAG for the 1997/99
flscal yea.
1995 Strut: ure and Accompllshments
Because m-st SEAG members have long been 1nvolved mm
energy/fe-dstock/economlc unpact matters, the cadre of Sixteen
experlencd 1nd1v1duals, operatlng as a commlttee of the whole (see
appendlxh were able to deal rapldly and effectlvely Hlth key lssues.
SEAG 155 e leaders are responslble for identifying speclflc energy
leglslatve or regulatory initiatives havlng potentlal for Significant
econom unpact on the chemlcal 1ndustry. SEAG also has provlded
support for Government Relatlons actlon on leglslatlve matters.
To date mine the economlc unpact of changes 1n energy pollcy, SEAG
calcul.ted chemlcal 1ndustry 011 and gas cost at mum quarter 1995
market prices to be $11 bllllon/year. Proposed oll unport taxes 1n
sever.l mus 1ntroduced 1n 1995 would support crude 011 at $22/barrel
and t ereby Increase chemlcal 1ndustry 011 and gas costs by $5
bllll.n/year. Whlle thls would 1mpact unfavorably on all manufacturlng
1ndus rles. the chemlcal 1ndustry would be the most affected. A
Whar-on study shows that 011 and gas costs are more than 25% of flnal
chem cal product costs, the hlghest of all manufacturlng sectors.
By Hy of comparlson, a SS/barrel import tax on crude 011 and unported
petoleum products would 1ncrease chemlcal 1ndustry costs almost Elva
tlms as much as the proposed Superfund feedstock chemlcal tax
1n eases whlch cm worked so hard and successfully to avold 1n 1935.
In m1d71986, congressmen from 011 produclng states 1ntroduced oll
1mort tax proposals. These proposals were opposed categorlcally by
t - Admlnlstratlon. As the year progressed, polltlcal pressure 1n oll
poducmg states led the Admlnlstratlon m 1n1tlate an energy securlty
s udy that consldered a $5 and SlD/barrel oll import tax. SEAG
. spared an analysls of the unfavorable 1mpact of such a tax on the
hemlcal 1ndustry. The analysls showed a posslble 1ncrease 1n
A 039731
etrochemlcal 1mports from 14% m as high as 90%. CMA submltted the
analysls to the Admlnlstratlon and SEAG members explalned 1:: content
1n Visits mm members of the Presldent's task force. Although no
softenlng of t e Admlnlstratlon's opposltlon to an 011 unport tax was
evldent 1n thee Visits, release of the energy securlty study was
delayed for m. months to conslder addltlonal input, implying a
posslble shlft 1n emphasls.
In addltlon to work on energy taxes, SEAG also accompllshed the
followlng:
At the request of the Executlve Commlttee, prepared a study of
the (Waxmam a 1d raln mu. Th1: study showed a potentlal $1
bllllon/year c-st 1ncrease m the chemlcal 1ndustry for steam,
process energy and electrlclty. Th1: study was used by cm 1n the
congresslonal abate on acld raln leglslatlon;
Developed mate 1315 for CMA'S successful effort to ellmlnate
dupllcatlve enrgy reportlng;
Addressed prop-sed fuel use and natural gas leglslatlve lssues;
and:
Responded to F RC docket: deallng Hlth access to competitive
natural gas tr-nsportatlon and preferentlal treatment of
1nterstate plp-llne marketlng afflllates.
1997 Outlook
Increase 1n En-rgy Actlvlty.
In 1997 energy lssues Will be more
actlve 1n both leglslatlve and regulatory arenas. Th1: 1ncrease 1n
actlvlty 15 exacted for the followlng reasons:
. The recent (1 ange 1n Congresslonal leadershlp;
. The high prl-rlty of energyirelated envlronmental
lssues, (such .5 acld ramy;
. Increaslng v.5. dependency on forelgn energy sources;
. Deterloratlo of the v.5. trade balance and,
. Contlnulng b dget deflclts.
Key Issues. As mentloned earller, 011 and gas costs are more than
25% of flnal emlcal product costs, whlch 15 the hlghest of all
manufacturlng actors. Any actlons that ralse 011 and gas costs by
such a level .Ve a great unpact on the chemlcal 1ndustry. As an
example, 15 a de 011 15 supported at 522/barrel by 011 import taxes,
then 011 and as costs would Increase 55 bllllon/year. Key Issues that
may affect energy and petrochemlcal feedstock costs are llsted below:
. 011 Import axes and Energy Securlty. The prlmary energy
lssue Will be 011 import taxes and energy securlty measures.
CMA 039732
Relatlve Chane: 1n domestlc and forelgn 011 and gas costs are
Vltally 1mpor ant to 1nternatlonal competltlveness of the v.5.
chemlcal 1ndutry.
. Energy Cost Impact of Envlronmental Regulatlon. Energy cost
15 also a maj-r conslderatlon 1n detemlnlng the economc
unpact of em! ronmental leglslatlon and regulatlon. There 15
a need to eva uate the energy cost 1mpllcatlons of envlronmental
controls.
. Natural Gas Issues. Regulatory changes affectlng cost,
supply and ac-ess m transportatlon of natural gas will contlnue
to effect Che leal 1ndustry costs. CMA needs to respond to
those 1n1tlat was or propose more approprlate initiatives
geared to mak my gas markets more competitive 1n 1937.
. Energy Prod ctlvlty. Flnally, there exlsts contlnued concern
on Capltol m 1 and 1n the Admlnlstratlon that energy
productlvlty s bemg lost mm lower current energy costs.
CMA needs to .e prepared to show that the 1ndustrlal energy
conservatlon thlc has not been lost even though 1995
leglslatlon h.s ellmlnated the 1ndustrlal energy conservatlon
reportlng pro-ram.
. Competltlve e55 Issue“. cm members have a Vital 1nterest 1n
government po lales affectlng energy and petrochemlcal
feedstock: beause they are of substantlal economc significance
and detemlne the competltlveness and long term Viability of our
1ndustry. Proosed trade leglslatlon and regulatlons must be
revlewed by S-AG (1n coordlnatlon Hlth my: Internatlonal Trade
Commlttee7 to assess the economlc unpact of energy cost changes
related to thse mus.
SEAG Dperatlo and Resources.
In 1936, SEAG operated mm minimal
staff asslsta Ca and no fundlng for addltlonal economc studles or
other outslde support, SEAG has operated efflclently, but 1n Vlew of
renewed Congr-sslonal 1nterest 1n energy taxes and other energy lssues,
the current A resources will llkely not be adequate to meet the needs
of the 1ndusty.
In addltlon, nhe group effort has been tled m
economlc unpat studles prepared 1n 1995 and 1935. These studles must
be updated to be relevant 1n the 1997 energy debate.
Actlon Requlrd. None at thls time 7 for 1nformatlon only.
Issue
1nfomatlon ad potentlal resource requlrements Will be submltted to
the Flnance Cummlttee for 1:: conslderatlon mm respect to the 1997/99
operatlons of SEAG,
CMA
CMA 039733
EXHIBIT G
upon 0F THE CHAIRMAN
Speclal Progr ms Pollcy Commlttee
m the
CMA Board of lrectors
January 25,
1997
The Speclal p ograms Pollcy Commlttee was chartered
by the Board .5 Dlrectors 1n 1935.
on behalf of he Executlve
Commlttee and Board. and 1n conjunctlon mm cm standlng
commlttees, spa helps ensure that all Speclal Programs are
conducted 1n = manner conslstent mm Assoclatlon pollcy and
mm the Specal Programs Guldellnes.
1: also counsls mm
Speclal Progr-ms regardlng the approprlateness of current
pollcy provlsons; and revlews reports and recommendatlons from
the Speclal p ograms Dlvlslon staff regardlng new and revlsed
operatlng pro edures.
sppc recommenatlons for changes of
pollcy are reorted to the Executlve Commlttee and Board of
Dlrectors. u- the Presldent” for flnal approval and actlon.
In the past y-ar, sppc has recelved no requests from
Speclal Progr.m panel chalrmen m revlew current pollcy.
To
ensure that t e Vlews of chalmen are obtalned. and 1n keeplng
mm 1:: man.te, sppc plans to meet 1n the next few months
mm a repres-ntatlve group of panel chalrmen.
The purpose .‘
the meetlng 11 be to SDllClt the chalmen's Vlews on adequacy
and appropr1.eness of current pollcy provlslons.
In the past war, no confllcts between conduct of
Speclal Frog .ms and Assoclatlon pollcy have been noted by
me.
In our op1n1-. Program actlons and cm pollcy remaln
1n concert.
Based on the- observatlons, we conclude that the
safeguards 1 11m: 1n the SW: process are adequately servlng
the Speclal - ograms and the Assoclatlon, We recommend contlni
uatlon of th overslght mechanlsm.
In keeplng w h thls recommendatlon, we also Wish to
remlnd the 3.5m of 1:5 suggestlon 1n 1980, that all smgle
product cons-rtla be chartered under the umbrella m a trade
assoclatlon.
The reason L; Van for thls suggestlon was that
ad hoc group' actlons may, adversely affect the contlni
ulty, consls-ency of posltlon, and longitem lltlgatlon plans
of cm or 31 led organlzatlons." Just as unportantly, 55511157
tlon Hlth a Irade assoclatlon more effectlvely Shlelds consortla
from unpllcallons of antltrust Violations than does ad hoc status,
and thereby alps protect member companles,
whlle most 5 ngle
product cons-rtla now afflllate Hlth a trade assoclatlon, there
remaln a few that do not. Membershlp 1n each of these
hoe
Groups 1nclues CMA member companles.
We ask that on evaluate
ycur company s partlclpatlon 1n these groups and take steps to
brlng the as hoe consortla 1nto an assoclatlon.
CMA
CMA 039734
EXHIBIT 3
Executlve Su nnary
Internatlona Trade Commlttee
Annual Repor m am Board of Dlrectors
January 25, 997
The competlt Ve posltlon of the v.5, chemlcal Industry In world markets
15 Increaslnly affected by pollcles of both v.5. and forelgn governments.
CMA'S Intermtlonal Trade Commlttee 1mm devotes the majorlty of 1:5 efforts
to analyzlng lssues affectlng trade related matters, alertlng cm members to
these lssues and developmg posltlon papers for am Board approval that will
help Influene government trade and 1nvestment pollcles whlch affect the
1nternatlona competltlveness of the v.5. chemlcal Industry. Both the
Admlnlstratl-n and the Congress have 1nd1cated that, durlng 1997, much
attentlon an emphasls 15 golng to be placed on the competltlveness of all
domestlc 1ndstr1es 1n the 1nternatlonal marketplace. Th1: emphasls will
probably tra slate 1nto changes 1n current v.5. laws, pollcles and practlces
1n areas 1m: udlng trade. Investment, flscal and monetary, worker educatlon,
thlrd world web: and others that may be adversely affectlng the 1nternatlonal
competltlvenss of many domestlc companles faced Hlth 1ncreaslng v.5. unports
and decreasl g v.5. exports. The ITC plans to contlnue efforts 1n helplng cm
to favorably 1nfluence the effect of such changes on the v.5. chemlcal
1ndustry.
mmmnmm TRADE HIGHLIGHTS Ann: mama COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES xx 1995
Trade nghllhts
The 99eh mu ed States Congress and the Admlnlstratlon were wldely
dlvlded on must major trade lssues In 1935. As a result of thls dlvlslon (and
more pollth-lly presslng matters llke electlons and tax reform, no new major
trade leglsl-tlon or recom was enacted. There was a lot of Congresslonal
Commlttee an Staff work on H.&. 4300 and s. 1860. 1nclud1ng a number of
Commlttee He-rlngs, but only the House passed an omnlbus Trade 13111 13.)}.
490m. The Snate Flnance Commlttee dld not act on 3.x. 4900, but used
5. 1860 and = later Commlttee Staff draft for purposes of some 9 separate
hearlngs. Th Senate Flnance Commlttee dld narrowly approve negotlatlng
authorlty fo the USTR. to negotlate mm Canada on a proposed Ellateral Free
Trade Agreem-nt. Dcher relevant trade hlghllghts and initiatives taken durlng
1995 Include:
v.5. trade d-nm: for 1995 15 at about $155 bllllon, a $15 bllllon
1ncrease m the $150 bllllon deflclt 1n 1935.
v.5. chemlcal 1ndustry trade surplus 15 estlmated m be up about 52,
the flrst 1n rease 1n surplus Since 1980. There had been 5 years of
decllnlng su lus from 512.1 bllllon surplus 1n 1980 to 57,2 bllllon
1n 1935. Estmates for 1995 1nd1cate a 1995 chemlcal trade surplus of
CMA 039735
I
Executlve Su ‘ ary
Internatlona Trade Commlttee
mmmnmuu TRADE HIGHLIGHTS AND MAJOR COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES IN 1995
Trad“ nghllhts (contlnuefﬂ
No mlscella -ous tarlff mm was passsd by the 99th Congrass. Over
tan mu: 1 tbs alseallanaous tarlff mu package 1ncludad 1n 3.x.
4am and 5. man vars for chamlcals.
Tax rafom. Customs Users pas, Port tax. and Suparfund tax on 1mports
of covarad hamlcals and cartaln darlvatlvas (cradlt to tha import
taxpayar 15 Exports Bra maday vars all 1n leglslatlon anactad durlng
1995 that h.s 1nternatlonal trade ramlflcatlons.
Industry Setor Advlsory Commlttees (ISAC'57 vars recharterad 1n
Aprll, 1935.
Reauthorlza lon of Approprlatlons for EXIM Bank was anactad 1n
Saptambar. 935.
Annual asp 'evlew chat 1ncludes petltlons affectlng chemlcals, began
1n July, 195. A notlce of changes will be announced 1n Aprll, 1937.
Twaiyear cs- Revlew of overall program, that may Include wlthdrawal of
certaln GS? beneflts m countrles llke Brazll. Hong Kong, Mexlco,
South Korea, and Talwan was completed 1n December, 1935. Changes to
be announce 1n January, 1937.
4
The Admlnls-ratlon (USTR7 1n1tlated 5 cases under Sectlon 501 of v.5.
trade lav a d 1mplemented soma retallatlon.
4
Trade sane: ons and quotas (VRA'57 agalnst EC, Japan, Brazll and
others were 1mplemented durlng 1935.
4
Accesslon o Spaln and Portugal 1nto the European Communlty may.
Th1: actlon has caused conslderable dlspute between the v.5. and EC on
what approplate trade concesslons the EC should give the v.5. to
compensate or EC tarlff rates chat Hill Increase because of the
Spanlsh and Portuguese accesslon.
4
Mexlco jomd GATT.
4
PRC applled for GATT membershlp.
4
GATT Slgnatrles 192 countrles) agree to start new MIN Round to be
called the nruguay Round. The GATT Mlnlsterlal Declaratlon Issued 1n
September, 995 to commence the Uruguay Round contalns all the major
agenda Item 1177 that the Unlted States sought to have Included.
4
Inltlal meemgs of GATT Signatory representatlves began 1n October,
1995 to org nlze, choose chalmen of major negotlatlng commlttees, and
to start Ho k on draft agendas for 1997 meetlngs.
CMA 039735
Executlve 5 mary
Internatlon.l Trad“ Commlttee
INTERNATIDNL TRADE HIGHLIGHTS AND MAJOR COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES IN 1995
Major Comml tee Actlvltles
The ITC and lea cask groups wars Vary acelva la 1995 on many bllaearal
and mulellasral erada lsauas. In addlelon co aha monthly ITC maaelngs, tha
ITC task gr-ups mac 3 total of 17 elaas Includmg 1 jolnt maaelngs, and aha
ITC was prl arlly rasponslbla for tha plannlng, organlzatlon and lmplamancaclon
of an DCITA sponsored semlnar on the GATT Uruguay MTN Round. Tha majorlty of
tune and at or: devoted by ITC and task group members, Hlth the Vary able
support and cooperatlon of 01A scaff, cantered on trade lssue related matters
1nclud1ng:
Preparatlon of a leglslatlve language proposal to 1ncozporate CMA'S
posltlon on new GATT (Uruguay) MTN Round men respect to tarlff
negotlatlon and Import sensltlve products;
Presentatlo of CMA/DCITA posltlon on MTN co Che Congresslonal
Commlttees esponslble for trade matters;
Presentatl- of CMA/DCITA posltlon on U.S.*Canada FTA m the
Congresslo -1 Commlttees responslble for trade matters;
a
Presentatl- of CMA/DCITA posltlon on a U.S.*Canada Free Trade
Agreement :- Che Offlce of v.5. Trade Representatlve;
a
Joint meet g5 Hlth European (CEFIC7 and Canadlan (ccpm chemlcal
trade asso atlon representatlves on trade related matters;
a
Preparatlo of a tarlff rate concordance for v.5. and ocher major
tradlng pa ners based on new Harmonlzed System;
a
Developed heckllst of economlc factors chat Will be consldered by the
v.5. Inter atlonal Trade Commlsslon when USTR requests that product
nomlnees f-r tarlfficut exemptlon from MTN be submltted 1n connectlon
mm Urugu.y Round;
Began work my 115: (for further development) of posslble nomlnees for
tarlfficut exemptlon/lmport sensltlve chemlcal products;
Began work on the development of CMA posltlon papers for unportant
trade rela-ed Issues connected to multllateral and bllateral trade
agreements 1n addltlon m certaln needed revlslons Co current v.5.
trade lav, 1.E. Trade Modules (see Task Group reports);
9
Annual ITC Plannlng Conference 1n September, 1935;
Preparatlo for ocrm sponsored daylong semlnar 1n October, 1995 on
GATT Urugu.y MTN Round;
t
Executlve ummary
Internatlo 51 Trada Commlttee
INTERNATIONAL TRADE HIGHLIGHTS AMP MAJOR COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES IN 1995
Major Comm ctaa Actlvltles (contlnuefﬂ
Coordlnatln of chamlcal 1ndustry commancs on evo saparaca draft
questlonna res praparad by tha v.5. Intarnatlonal Trada Commlsslon
msmcy fo upcomlng vsmc 1nvast1gaclons coneamlng tha
compatltlv.nass of tha v.5. pacroehamlcal 1ndustry" and tha
prashlpman 1nspactlon practlces and custom Valuatlon procedures
parformad n tha v.5. prior to shlpment" on behalf of 24 forelgn
government ~ by prlvate companles;
Worklng m h CMA'S Government Relatlons Commlttee, 50cm and DCITA
trada reprsentatlves 1n advocatlng cm approved posltlons to the
Congress a d the Admlnlstratlon on KTN, U.S.*Canada FTA, wlthdrawal of
certaln Gs beneflts m countrles not provldlng adequate protectlon
for 1ntellctual property righrs, and leglslatlve proposal to
1mplement -n admlnlstratlve procedure for v.5. companles to obtaln
temporary .s. duty suspenslons, that would be an alternatlve procedure
to the exltlng leglslatlve process.
Kept cm mmber companles completely 1nformed of actlons they could
take Hlth aspect to proposed changes 1n the GS? program, and
presentatl-n of requests mm regard to the U.S.*Canada FTA.
OUTLOOK m- INTERNATIONAL TRADE ACTIVITIES IS 1997
Trade Legllatlon and the 100th Congress
All report indicate chat trade leglslatlon Will be one of the flrst
priorities of the 100th Congress. 1: 15 reported that both the House and
Senate Com lttees responslble for trade matters will 1ntroduce major trade
leglslatlo Very early. The House has 1nd1cated that the new Dmnlbus Trade
3111 Hill .e almost the same as 3.x. 4am and has tentatlvely been asslgned
mu numbe 3.x. 3 1n Che 100th Congress. The Senate Flnance Commlttee, under
1:: new ch.1man" Senator Bencsen" and the Trade Subcommlttee under 1:: new
chalman, enator Spark Matsunaga, have also glven indications that new Senate
trade legl latlon Hill baslcally take the tom of thelr old b111, s. 1860, as
modlfled .. the Commlttee Staff draft 1n late 1996, and Will be 1ntroduced 1n
January, 1937. Senator Bentsen has already announced that the Flnance
Commlttee will hold hearlngs 1n February, 1997 on 1nternatlonal trade Issues
chat focus on a v.5. response to the current trade deflclt. ﬂew trade
leglslatl-n 15 llkely to 1nclude:
Trade Neg-tlatlng Authorlty: The Offlce of the Unlted States Trade
Represent.t1ve ms-my has 1nd1cated 1: wants a separate mm for such
authorlty. Current authorlty explres January 3, 1939.
CMA 03373.
Executlve Summary
Internatl-nal Trade Commlttee
OUTLOOK FIR INTERNATIONAL TRADE ACTIVITIES IN 1997
Trade Leg slatlon and tha 100th Congress (conelnuad)
U.S.*Canaa FTA: Leglslatlve authorlty on adoptlon (fast track b35157
15 needed 1n 1997 15 FTA 1: concluded mm Canada.
011 Imporl Taxl Senator Bentsen may push for such a tax, but only 15
the Admln stratlon 1nd1cates a wllllngness to support 1:.
Forelgn M.rket Access: Authorlty m retallate agalnst countrles whlch
11m: aces: to thelr markets.
Forelgn Cuntrles" Trade surpluses: Authorlty m retallate agalnst
countrles consldered to have large and unwarranted trade surpluses
mm the nlted States.
The Propo-ed Harmonlzed System of Tarlff Schedules:
authorlty for adoptlon 15 needed 1n 1937.
Industrla Competltlveness Counclls; Advlsory groups composed of
represent.t1ves of labor, management, consumers, communltles and
governmen offlclals to develop adjustment plans for Industrles
affected y rapldly growlng, but otherwlse falrly traded, 1mports.
Natural Rsources: To deflne forelgn governments' grantlng of
preferent 31 access to Indlgenous natural resources as a practlce
subject m countervalllng duty.
Forelgn Currupt Practlces Act (FCPA);
rules and make mm more workable.
Sectlon 3-7 of the Tarlff Act of 1930: Revlslon to remove the
requlreme t that owners of v.5. process patents prove economlc Injury
1n order 0 exclude unports of products mads 1n forelgn countrles
usmg v.5 patented process technology.
Antkuumpng and Countervalllng Duty Law: Changes to 1nclude
tlghtenln the 1njury standard and shortenlng the tune process.
Export Co trols; Easlng of controls, especlally where Similar
products .re avaliable from forelgn sources.
Leglslatl e
Amendment to relax accountlng
A separat- effort mlght be made to raienact the manufacturlng clausa,
whlch ex red earller thls year, and whlch had a negatlve effect on 1ndustry
efforts :- obtaln Improved protectlon for v.5. 1ntellectual property rlghts 1n
other so trles:
A new efn-rt may also be made to codlfy the draft Federal Pollcy on the
Export 0- Hazardous Substances. Enactment Hill contlnue m be difficult.
75mm 03739
Executlv- summery
Interns: onal Trade Commlttee
OUTLOOK 0R mmmnmmz TRADE ACTIVITIES IN 1997
Focus of Commlttee Actlvltles
The ITC 111 contlnue to concentrate 1:5 prlmary efforts on the trade
initiatl as already Identlfled by the Congress and the Admlnlstratlon as
prlorltls for 1937. Clearly, a major 1mpact on the chemlcal 1ndustry 1n 1997
could be the short and long term 1mpllcatlons of a FTA Hlth Canada bemg
negotlatd and leglslatlvely authorlzed for unplementatlon. A {allure on the
part of he v.5. and Canada to get a mutually beneflclal FTA negotlated 1n
1997 con d have a Significant adverse effect on a meanlngful start to MTN
negotlat ons 1n the Uruguay Round.
As both he U.S.*Canada FTA and Uruguay Round negotlatlons begln 1n 1937,
the ITC 111 contlnue development of posltlon papers (trade modules) to
recommen for CMA approval and advocacy on trade lssues chat may affect the
chemlcal 1ndustry. Each of the trade modules we have, and Hill contlnue to
develop, are prlmarlly 1ntended to provlde cm Hlth approprlate responses to
trade lsue posltlon 1nqu1r1es. These inquiries have, and are llkely m
contlnue to come from Che Congress and the Admlnlstratlon on unportant lssues
that are surely to be contalned 1n Che U.S.*Canada FTA and MTN Uruguay Round,
heparate y, the chemlcal.1ndustry may also have Significant 1nterest 1n some
M1 the c rrent v.5. trade law revlslons that may be 1ntroduced as trade reform
leglslaton 1r. the 100th Congress. The trade*related lssues, as trade modules
or trade lav revlslons. chat the ITC 15 currently developmg 1nclude:
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
Expansl-n of Approved cm Prlnclples concernlng MTN and U.S.*Canada FTA
Dbjectl as for Protectlon of Intellectual Property nghts for GATT
Rules 9. Origin for U.S.*Canada FTA
Rules 9. Origin Revlslons for GATT
Dlspute Settlement Provlslon for U.S.*Canada FTA
Dlspute Settlement Revlslons for GATT
bllater.l Investment Treaty Prlnclples for the PRC
13113:“.1 Trade Negotlatlons Prlnclples for Mexlco
Sectlon 201 7 Escape Clause
Sectlon 301 7 Unfalr Trade Practlces
Sectlon 337 7 Intellectual Property nghts
Antldu mg and Countervalllng Duty Revlslon
Forelgn Corrupt Practlces Act
Nonimar et Economles and State Tradlng Companles
Other I c actlvltles 1n 1997 that will help Commlttee members to
effectl ely develop thls work plan, keep cm member companles alerted to trade
lssues hat could affect thelr busmesses, and unprove the ability and
resourcs of 1:: members to 55515: CMA 1n respondlng to inquiries about
trade*rlated Issues Hill 1nclude:
CMA 03940
Executl a Summary
Interns lonal Trade Commlttee
OUTLOOK mu mmmnmmz. TRADE ACTIVITIES IN 1997
Focus 0 Commlttee Actlvltles, contlnued
Partlclatlon In, and/or approprlate coverage of Congresslonal
hearlng on trade Issues;
Partlclatlon In hearlngs and In questlonnalre development, along Hlth
regula 1nterface Vlth v.5. government representatlves responslble for
trade .tters at UsTR, DOC. usmc, State and Treasury;
Open I Meetlng on March 19, 1997 1n Chlcago Vlth theme of
U.s.... anada FTA and MTN updates;
Joint eetlng mm mm: 1n Washlngton on Aprll 1, 1937;
9
Joint eetlng Vlth (1ch 1n Canada to be scheduled, as approprlate,
depend ng upon FTA progress;
9
Annual ITC Plannlng Conference on May 1919, 1937;
Develo needed trade and economlc data m emphaslze and support cm
trade vosltlons;
Close oordlnatlon and actlve role mm the DCITA'S Advlsory Commlttee
1n advcatlng the chemlcal 1ndustry's posltlons on trade Issues.
The IT Hill contlnue 1:5 efforts to stress the Importance of
1ntern tlonal trade to the chemlcal 1ndustry 1n every approprlate manner
recogn zlng the 1mportant role chat Che senlor management of cm member
compan as can play 1n thls effort. 1: contlnues m be the objectlve of the
ITC to keep abreast of 1nternatlonal trade events, leglslatlon, admlnlstratlve
practl es and developmg trade and economc trends affectlng the chemlcal
1ndust y so as to be able to provlde meanlngful advlce to the cm on
approplate polleles, posltlons and support of trade related Issues.
CMA
(:sz 03741
EXHIBI I
TABLE IF courams
REPDR 0F THE PRESIDENT
Assoc atlon Program and Issue Report
ADVD cy ovmwmw
111.
1
2
2
3
4
ISSUE. AND PROGRAMSTATUS
Inter atlonal Regulatory Issues (Health, Safety and Envlroment7..
5
7
a
10
12
15
17
19
21
24
25
27
29
an
31
31
33
34
DEP'TM‘ENTAL woman moms
33
40
40
40
CMA
CMA 039742
REPRT 0F THE PRESIDENT
ASSICIATIDN woman AND 155% REPORT
AD ICACY ovmwmw
A. ongress
51 Ce January, 1931, Democrats have controlled the House, and
Reubllcans the Presldency and the Senate. As the 100th Congress
prpares to convene on January am, He Will return to a more famlllar
tye of government W a Republlcan Whlte House and a Democrat controlled Congress.
A d the changes wrought by a shlft 1n control of the Senate,
bth Republlcans and Democrats moved qulckly to realest thelr current
laders for another two years. Senate Majorlty Leader Robert a. Byrd
(Irwvy has stated that after Congress convenes, Senate Democrats will
egln leglslatlve work January 12, breaklng mm recent Congresslonal
radltlon of waiting untll after the Presldent's State of the Unlon
address. scheduled for January 27.
House Sp-aker Jim erght (DiTxy has 551d that Congress could
Within a month clear leglslatlon reauthorlzlng the Clean Water Act,
whlch Pr-sldent Reagan kllled by pocket Veto last year.
1: 15 310
antlclpa ed that Congress will move qulckly m authorlze speclal
commltte-s to 1nvest1gate the Iran arms*contra am affalr, 1ntroduce
trade lelslatlon and begln tackllng the Admlnlstratlon's record 51.02
trllllon 1999 budget proposal. The Admlnlstratlon has estlmated the
deflclt .t about $150 bllllon, whlle the Congresslonal Budget Offlce
and othe analysts have estlmated 1: at closer to $170 bllllon. House
Budget C-mmlttee Chalman Willlam B. Gray III mam has 551d that to
meet defclt goals, Congress may be forced to conslder tax 1ncreases,
c1:1ng,-s examples, "wlthout touchlng personal 1ncome tax", changlng
the natl-n's tarlff system and 1ncreaslng surcharges on some 1mported
products.
Other Isues that Hill confront the 100th Congress and whlch are
of part1 ular concern to the chemlcal 1ndustry 1nclude pestlclde and
acld r51 leglslatlon, product llablllty, and emphasls on work place
concerns 7 an area where labor shows Signs of greater polltlcal
actlvlty. Trade reform leglslatlon, another prlorlty of the new
Congress, will most llkely be protectlonlst and CMA 15 prepared to
take an.ct1ve role 1n the forthcomlng debate mm posltlons on
numerous facets of exlstlng trade law.
mm the current agenda and the usual uncertalntles of a new
sesslon, 1997 Will be another busy and dlfflcult year for the Congress.
CMA 03973
5
Federal 'egulatory Agencles
Envlro -ntal Protectlon Agency EEPA). The Agency has
announce 1:5 1ntentlon to use Superfund monles to fund nghtitoiknow
actlvltl-s requlred by Tltle III of the Superfund Amendments and
Reauthor zatlon Act of 1935. CMA. key members of Congress and some
press reorters have already spoken out agalnst bleedlng the Superfund
to carry out actlvltles requlred by other statutes. Tltle III 1: 1n
fact a s-parate Act from CERCLA, much llke the Clean Alr Act or Clean
Water Ac . EPA'S dlfflculty lles 1n the fact that Congress created
deadllne under Tltle III. but falled m provlde any funds to conduct
those p -grams.
Interns: onal
House a - Senate leaders insist they will have a trade mil to
the Pres dent by May. mm control of the Senate now held by the
Democrat , the comltment seems flrm. Even though the House passed a
mm 135 year and the Senate almost dld, there are some
uncertal tles. New and tougher actlons agalnst unports are certaln m
be 1ncl ed. The textile/apparel mu vetoed by the Presldent last
year 15 talned7 may be Included. Senator Bentsen, now chalman of
the Sen. e Flnance CommlttEE, says he will llkely 1nclude an 011
import t.x.
The Pres dent says he wants nothlng 1n a trade mu except
authorlt m negotlate the Multllateral Trade Negotlatlons 1mm.
Whether a can. or whether he will, work Hlth the Congress on an
accept.- a mm 15 not known now. There 15 almost no common ground
for the hlte House and Congress and the result may be a Veto battle.
Bargalnl g 1n the MTN has started Hlth all the usual flghtlng for
posltlo by partlclpants. Not much progress can be announced 1n the
early m- ths but much groundwork Will be mm. The chemlcal 1ndustry
wants n- tarlff cuts on products proved to be import sensltlve.
Attempts to get leglslatlve language to thls effect are underway.
The U.S./Canada negotlatlons toward a free trade arrangement 15
movlng .long though Hlth difficulties constantly appearlng. Canadlan
offlclals are hardipressed by opponents of an agreement. Pressure
grows f-r settlement by late 1n 1997 to beat the Presldent's
bargalnl g authorlzatlon 11mm of January 3, 1939. There 15
conslde able doubt thls deadllne can be met.
Prellml ary data shows that the 41 percent decllne of the
chemlcal trade balance 1n the perlod 193071995 has reversed. The
estlmat- 15 for a 7.5 bllllon dollar balance. a 5 percent 1ncrease
over th- year before. Most of the credlt goes to a weaker dollar.
The Int-rnatlonal Affalrs Group (may has undertaken an effort to
ensure raster cooperatlon among chemlcal trade assoclatlons
worldwle. Several forelgn trade assoclatlons have expressed 1nterest
1n maintaining closer contact Hlth cm, and the new effort will
2
CMA 039744
attempt to 1ncrease the IAG'S Visibility as a contact and advocate for
the v.5. chemlcal 1ndustry on an 1nternatlonal scale. The ma
belleve that 1nteractlon Hlth our forelgn counterparts may profltably
be made on the emerglng global lssues affectlng health, safety and the
envlro ant.
States
Durlng he last two months of 1935, less than 51x state
leglsla ures were 1n sesslon. However. there were a few Significant
state g-Vernment actlvltles of major significance to the chemlcal
1ndustr .
Wlthout doubt. the most Significant event was the passage of the
Callfor la Toxlc Inltlatlve or Proposltlon as. Desplte a major publlc
relatlo s campalgn by 1ndustry, the initiative was approved 53% to
37%. Th- 1ndustry coalltlon Hill remaln 1ntact to address the
unpleme tatlon of the new law. The flrst deadllne 15 March 1, 1937.
when th- Governor must publlsh a 115: of affected chemlcals. on
March 1, 1999 the warnlng provlslons go 1nto effect and on November 1,
1999 th- dlscharge prohibitions become effectlve. After a thorough
legal r-Vlew of all posslble optlons, the coalltlon declded to delay
any leg.l attempts to postpone or to alter the law untll after 1::
unpleme tatlon has begun.
The CMA State Affalrs Commlttee has establlshed a speclal ad hoc
group :- help develop a response to thls law 1n Callfornla as well as
1:: pot.ntlal spread to other states.
State l-glslatlve actlon will reach a peak 1n the next couple of
months. as all but a couple of states will be 1n sesslon. Tort
Refom/Illablllty Insurance will contlnue m be a major issue among the
states n 1937. mule some sort of tort recom leglslatlon was passed
1n 35 s ates 1n 1936, injuries 1nvolv1ng hazardous substances were
partlal y, or 1n some cases, completely excluded from some of the
Slgnlflant refoms.
Followl g the Thlrd Clrcult Court's declslon to essentlally
uphold he Pennsylvanla nghtiToiknow Law, there was an appeal to the
Unlted tates Supreme Court. Untll the court decldes whether or not
:9 aces: the Cass. there 15 an 1njunctlon agalnst the luvplementatlon
of the aw as 1: applies to manufacturers.
Thanks n part to the efforts of the New Jersey Chemlcal Industry
Councll, the Councll of State Governments 1:567 deferred actlon on the
posslbl- adoptlon of the New Jersey Envlronmental Responslblllty
Cleanup Act (ECRA7 as model leglslatlon. However, some form of mm
model l-glslatlon Will be adopted by (:56 1n 1997 and CMA'S mm Work
Group c-ntlnues to work towards a favorable model.
Chemlca plant safety Hill 5135 contlnue to be a major lssue
among t e states 1n 1997 and the CMA State Affalrs/ Envlronmental
Managem-nt Work Group has developed an lssue analysls document that
was rec-ntly dlstrlbuted to member companles and state CICS.
3
In summ.ry, 1997 should be a Very actlve year for the chemlcal
1ndustr at the state level.
In the ovember electlons, the publlc
agaln soke strongly for 1ncreased envlronmental protectlon by state
governmnt. They also elected a majorlty of Democrats to the extent
that 57 out 99 state houses are now controlled by Democrats. Th1:
Will be an 1ncreaslngly formldable task thls year 1n llght of member
company state affalrs staff reductlons.
Medla
Beglnnl g 1n November medla coverage of busmess news 1ncreased
substan-lally W accountlng for nearly 12 percent of the news 1n major
natlona newspapers and on network televlslon. Recent Iran/Contra
coverag has 1nterrupted the growth 1n busmess news but 1: remalns a
substan-lal part of coverage.
Over th past several years coverage of busmess news was
essent1.lly positive. Buslness was seen as offerlng an alternatlve m
governmntal problem solvmg.
Recentl , however. nearly 50 percent of coverage has been
negatlv, settlng a dark background for leglslatlve and regulatory
actlvlt es. Issues llke 1n51der tradlng, chemlcal spllls, ozone
depletl-n, water contamlnatlon. and charges of poor management have
led the charge. The rush of yeariend takeovers accelerated the level
of nervusness 1n coverage.
Ivan Bosky, and the fallout from the 5m 1nvest1gatlon,
conflrmd for many Amerlcans deep susplclons about Wall Street and, by
extensl-n, about busmess ethlcs. Even a baby food manufacturer was
charged mm dllutlon of 1:: product. Several members of the chemlcal
1ndustr were charged Hlth lllegal product formulatlon.
Add a l.gk of trust 1n the Presldent's handllng of Iran and
Contra.1d and publlc bad feellngs about mg government and mg
busmes- have agaln surfaced.
Althoug water lssues have been slow to develop 1n the U.s., the
h avy average of contamlnatlon problems 1n Swltzerland have ralsed
publlc .wareness. Even a mlnor event 1n thls country could brlng
extensl a coverage and perhaps force earller conslderatlon of water
lssues n Congress.
Flnally, even though edltorlal opinion 1n Callfornla newspapers
was ovewhelmlngly opposed to Proposltlon as 129 no, 1 yesy. Popular
press average was just as overwhelmlngly 1n support of 1:. The
Hollywod stars' press caravan organlzed by Jane Fonda offered
1ntervlws and medla events and worked well 1n galnlng popular Votes.
The Sam tactlc Will be less usable 1n other states.
The 15:5: publlc opinion polls show most Amerlcans today belleve
companls are more concerned than they used to be about waste
dlsposa , but by a twoithlrds majorlty they say they don't see enough
actlon .o solve the problems. By the hlghest record 1n the
4
CMA nae 4a
Cambrld-e Reports hlstory an percent of Amerlcans are calllng for
more an 1ronmental regulatlon, even though they do not see
envlro ental condltlons gettlng worse. They're just tlred of waiting
for act on.
ISSUES my woman STATUS
Regulat on of Chemlcals ETSCA and relatedy
1. Congesslonal Developments and Response
TSCA Re.uthorlzatlon.
The Tax (1 Substances Control ACt (TSCA7 was Signed 1nto law 1n
1975. s nae then. 1:: chemlcal control provlslons have not been
slgnlflantly amended, other than the asbestos 1n schools requlrements
recentl adopted 1n the 99th Congress.
1:: Bdrm nlstratlon by the
Envlro ental Protectlon Agency contlnues to evolve and mature.
Whlle o-her Varlous leglslatlve changes have been proposed 1n
past ye.rs, none have been acted upon by Congress. Expendltures under
the Act have not been reauthorlzed since m 1993, as the Agency has
relled pon the approprlatlons process for fundlng. Consequently,
TSCA re.uthorlzatlon hearlngs may be ahead of us 1n 1937. However, 1:
15 too arly to predlct whether and when. Congressman Jim Florlo's
mimy -taff has 1nd1cated TSCA Will be on his prlorlty 115:, but his
Subcomm ttee and 1:5 jurlsdlctlon must be conflrmed 1n
January February, 1937, before he can go to work on leglslatlon.
Overslg t hearlngs and posslble blotechnology amendments are also a
reallst c posslblllty 1n the new Congress.
2. Regu story Developments and Response
Regulat on of Blotechnology.
In June Federal pollcles
governl g blotechnology regulatlon were lssued by the Whlte House
Offlce c Sclence and Technology Pollcy and Elva federal agencles.
CMA'S B otechnology Task Group submltted comments to EPA concernlng
1:5 reg latlon of blotechnology under the Toxlc Substances Control Act
(TSCA7 .nd the Federal Insectlclde Funglclde, and Rodentlclde Act
(FIFRA7 CMA'S comments stated that adequate authorlty exlsts under
TSCA an 17mm to control the commerclal uses of bloteChnology: and
1nclude recommendatlons for avoiding unreasonable burdens on
blotech ology producers. CMA expressed 1:: concern that certaln
aspects of EPA'S approach are overly strlngent and depart from prior
precedets under TSCA.
EPA'S errant schedule 15 to publlsh proposed rules under the
framewok 1n late 1937. The Blotechnology Task Group will contlnue m
monltor the development of the proposed rules and comments as
appropr ate.
Managemnt of Informatlon at EPA. Members of the Informatlon
Managemnt Task Group 11mm met mm EPA staff from the
5
CMA nae 47
Admlnlsratlon and Resources Management; Pollcy, Plannlng and
Evaluat on; and Pestlcldes and Toxlc Substances Dlvlslons m dlscuss
the Agecy's collectlon and management of health and envlronmental
data 1n chemlcals.
IMTG'S ecommendatlons for 1mproved 1nfomatlon management at the
Agency nclude:
The EPA Admlnlstrator should mandate an Agencywlde pollcy
stresslg 1:5 commltment m 1nformatlon management and
dlsseml atlon.
A h1gh* evel, clearly deslgnated focal polnt Hlthln the
Agency hould be created to admlnlster such a pollcy.
A separ.te llne ltem for 1nfomatlon management should be
created 1n the Agency's budget.
The 1m. Will work mm EPA staft durlng 1997 on the lssues of
redundacy of 1nformatlon requests by the Agency; promotlng the use of
TDSCATS (EPA computer data, basey by 1ndustry; sharlng of expertlse
about 1 fomatlon management; and Confldentlal Buslness Informatlon.
The Im.w111 meet agaln mm EPA staff on the broader 1nfomatlon
managemnt lssues.
Communl atlon mm EPA and OSHA. Members of the as: External
Affalrs Task Group (EXATG7 met mm 1ndustry liaison staff at EPA and
OSHA to dlscuss the chemlcal 1ndustry's communlcatlons Hlth the
agencle, and key lssues of unportance to 1ndustry and the agencles.
The EXA G Hill 1dentlfy the lssues, and CMA representatlves and agency
repress tatlves worklng on the lssues Hill 1ncrease onsionione
commum atlon at all worklng levels durlng the rulemaklng process.
Testlng Consent Agreements Under TSCA. The flrst meetlng of a
jolnt 1 dustry/govement/envlronment group took place on November 20,
1935, m dlscuss procedures governlng testlng consent agreements under
Sectlon 4 of the Toxlc Substances Control ACt (TSCA7 151 Fed. Reg.
23706, t seq.. June 30, 19357. The group was conned as a result of
a CMA metlng mm Dr. John A. Moore, EPA Asslstant Admlnlstrator for
Pestlcles and Toxlc Substances, 1n late October. 1935, on
unpleme tatlon of testlng consent agreements. Partlclpants at the
Novembe 20 meetlng agreed that 1ndustry and EPA could achleve better
coopera 1Ve plannlng when speclflc chemlcals are recommended for
testlng Joint 1ndustry/EPA meetlngs to resolve lssues relevant to
testlng consent agreements will contlnue 1n 1937.
3. Poll y Development, Analytlcal and Program Actlvltles
Rlsk Ev.luatlon of New Chemlcals. The Health and Safety
Commltte/Notlflcatlon and Reportlng Task Group has developed a
guldell e for evaluatlng the potentlal rlsks of new chemlcals. The
guldell e 15 1ntended to promote sound rlsk evaluatlons and to
encourae companles to submlt rlsk evaluatlon to EPA Hlth thelr
a
premanu acture notlces. am will promote the guldellne 1n a workshop
mm B? to be held 1n the flrst quarter of 1937,
Interns lonal Agency for Research on Cancer (mm.
mm
Monograh meetlngs were held 1n December, 1935, 1n Lyon to evaluate
the gentle actlvlty of 200+ chemlcals/exposures. CMA was represented
by Dale w. Matheson. Ph.D.. of Stauffer Chemlcal Company. Rlchard 3.
Makes, -n.u., of Exxon Blamedlcal Sclences was chosen as Dr. Matheson's
alterna e.
In a rear: to the CMA mm Work Group that has managed
the v.5 1ndustry/IARC 1nterface durlng 1935, Dr. Matheson noted
IARC'S avorable receptlon of 1ndustry posltlons, and adherence to
sound 5 lentlflc concepts and objectlvlty 1n technlcal dlscusslons at
the mes lngs.
In Marc , 1937, IARC plans to hold another serles of Monograph
meetlng at whlch the same group of chemlcals Will be evaluated for
thelr 0 gram carclnogenlclty. Robert J. Moolenaar, Ph.D., of Dow
Chemlcal Company, has been deslgnated as the cm Observer at these
meetlng. Dr. makes of Exxon will again serve as the alternate. The
CMA Haz.rd Assessment Task Group 15 preparlng Drs. Moolenaar and makes
for the meetlngs by assembllng and consolldatlng member company
revlews on speclflc chemlcals.
The pap-r entltled "Revlew and Recommendatlons For the Revlslon
of the ’reamble and Crlterla of the 1mm Monographs"
(CMA/AI C/API/NACA/PMA; July 31, 19357 has been wldely announced and
dlstrlb ted among author assoclatlon membershlps, sclentlflc contacts,
and at -r 1nterested groups. The document was prepared to provlde
mm m h crltlcal sclentlflc comments on the crlterla used to make
carcln-oenlclty evaluatlons.
Develo ental Toxlclty Testlng. A paper entltled "A Tler
System or Developmental Toxlclty Evaluatlons Based on Conslderatlons
of Exp-ure and Effect Relatlonshlps," by E. Marshall Johnson, Ph.D.,
of Jeff-rson Medlcal College, has been accepted for publlcatlon 1n
Teratol-gy. CMA'S Health and Safety Commlttee commlssloned the
paper :- help establlsh reasonable, sclentlflc guldellnes for prlorlty
settln 1n developmental toxlclty testlng. The Hazard Assessment Task
Group .5 dlstrlbuted the manuscrlpt to member companles for revlew.
Dccupat anal and Publlc Safety
1. Con-I esslonal Developments and Response
Dccupat onal Dlsease Notlflcatlon.
In the 99th Congress, 3.x.
1309 p. sad Rep. Gaydos' mam Subcomlttee Hlth only one dlssentlng
Vote.
1: was sported out of the full Educatlon and Labor Commlttee
by 2079 1511 the Commlttee Democrats and one Republlcan Votlng for
1: dld ot reach the House floor 1n part because of our
busme communlty efforts to educate Members of the House as to the
flaws ‘ the measurE, and 1n part because of a crowded endiofisesslon
calend. . Senator Howard Metzenbaum's miom s. 2050 recelved one day
of has my 1n the Subcommlttee of the Labor & Human Resources
Commlt -e.
7
CMA 03 49
Lou151.a, 1n fact. has already set up a state plannlng commlsslon and
the L0 islana Chemlcal Assoclatlon (LCA7 15 a member of the plannlng
commlslon Hlth Mr. Fred Loy, Presldent of the LCA, servlng as
Chalm. of the commlsslon.
The Co hall of Chemlcal Assoclatlon Executlves many. thch
repres-nts about 50 1ndustry trade groups, recently expanded the role
of 1:5 CAER Task Group. The task group, chalred by cm, was set up to
35515: the CCAE partlclpants 1n luvplementlng CAER mm thelr
memberhlps. Now the task group has the addltlonal responslblllty of
coordl atlng the emergency plannlng and communlty rlghtitoiknow lssues
of T1: e III for the CCAE. The task group 15 focuslng on settlng up
jolnt ICAE workshops on Tltle III and, as necessary, coordlnatlng an
1ndusty approach to EPA rulemaklng under thls Act.
2. Pol Cy Development, Analytlcal and Program Actlvltles
on Dec- her 12, 1935, Mr. Edward L. Mahoney, Presldent of the
Adhesl es Manufacturers Assoclatlon (AMAh wrote to Mr. Roland statlng
the ED lowlng, "1: 15 my pleasure on behalf of the members of the
Adhesl es Manufacturers Assoclatlon to formerly endorse and express
our stong support for the Communlty Awareness and Emergency Response
(cum program as developed by the Chemlcal Manufacturers
Assoc1.tlon. AMA'S declslon to endorse the CAER program was
unanlm-usly adopted durlng a recent meetlng of the board of
dlrect-rs. You and your staff are to be commended for your initiative
and pr-fesslonal 1mplementatlon of thls concept whlch Will be of
Slgnlf cant beneflt to the 1mpacted communltles and thelr cltlzens as
well a- the chemlcal 1ndustry. The CAER program becomes even more
releve t 1n Vlew of the recent Suporfund amendments, partlcularly the
Tltle :11 notlflcatlon requlrements."
3. Intrnatlonal Aspects
ABIQUI offlclals (the Brazlllan chemlcal manufacturers
assoc1.tlon7 have 1nv1ted cm representatlves to meet mm them on
Februay 3, 1937, 1n Sao Paulo, Brazll. CMA offlclals are also
workln- to arrange meetlngs at that time Hlth local Brazlllan agency
9551:1145. The purpose of these meetlngs 15 m dlscuss the CAER and
mum nltlatlves.
4. Duteach Actlvlty
Throug letters to CMA executlve contacts, company CAER
coordl ators, and local CommunltlES, cm unvelled the CAER recognltlon
progra. Th1: program helps communltles partlclpatlng 1n CAERitype
progras to recelve recognltlon for thelr plannlng efforts. The
progra conslsts of two awards. The level one award. whlch 15 a
handilttered and framed certlflcatE. 15 awarded to communltles that
can shw they have conned a CAER plannlng commlttee. The level two
award. whlch 15 an oak and bronze plaque, 15 awarded to communltlas
that h.ve completed the CAER mllestones.
9
caught the attentlon of Members of Congress mm 1:: use of the new
cleanuv standards at a Superfund slte. EPA 15 attemptlng to provlde
some 5 exlblllty 1n the cleanup standards, but Congresslonal crltlcs
conten: the new law does not allow that flexlblllty. We can expect
that Cmngress will conduct overslght hearlngs on thls issue. Also,
there ave been reports that EPA may be usmg Superfund money for the
unplemntatlon of Tltle III. the nghtitoiknow sectlon.
In pas mg
Superf nd, Congress speclflcally made Tltle III separate from
Superfnd and 531d that 1: should recelve fundlng through the
approp latlon process. Th1: was 1ntended to mean that the Superfund
trust und money would not be used for Tltle III. CMA sent a letter
mesemer 31, 19967 to EPA Admlnlstrator Lee Thomas expresslng our
concer mm his attempt to use Superfund money to unplement Tltle
111.
The Go ernment Relatlons Commlttee's Superfund Task Group will be
follow my Very closely these two lssues and others that develop durlng
the Suerfund 1mplementatlon process.
Regula ory Developments and Response
Sectlo 313 Notlflcatlon Fom. CMA submltted comments on an
EPA dr-ft of a notlflcatlon form to unplement the reportlng
requlrments of Sectlon 313 of the Superfund Amendments and
Reauth-rlzatlon. The flnal notlflcatlon com Will be the basls for
fomal reportlng requlrements under Tltle 111. CMA'S comments
genera ly supported the concepts for reportlng outllned 1n the draft
fom. A dld ralse concerns mm the dlsclosure of estlmate
calcul.tlon5. the need for da mmmus concentratlons. trade secret
provls ons, removal efflclency provlslons, and chemlcal use
deslgn.tlon.
3. Polcy Development, Analytlcal and Program Actlvltles
Superf nd Implementatlon Workshop. CMA has developed a twoiday
worksh-p that focuses on the 1mportant new requlrements of the new
Superf nd Amendments and Reauthorlzatlon Act of 1935. The workshop to
be hel on January 29 and 29, 1937, 1n New Orleans, LA, will address
the amnded clean up provlslons and the new Tltle III W Emergency
Plannl g and Communlty nghtiToiknow company responslbllltles. The
worksh-p la deslgned m provlde an overvlew of the new legal
provlsons, outllne the new requlrements for companles, and hlghllght
the ac lvltles companles should be plannlng for or dolng now.
4. thgatlon and Related Legal Actlvltles
Insura Ce thlgatlon Actlvltles. Followlng up on dlscusslons
at the flrst meetlng of the ad hoc group on Superfund/lnsurance
lssues the Offlce of General Counsel has ﬁlled amlcus brlefs 1n two
Import-nt Insurance coverage cases. The lssues 1n these cases concern
when a "occurrence" occurs for purposes of envlronmental llabllltles
under omprehenslve general liability (cam pollcles and whether
Superf nd cleanup costs can be consldered as "damages" under CGL
pollcl-s.
Both 1 sues Will have an 1mportant 1mpact on whether member
11
CMA 039753
comps as can seek coverage for Superfund liabilities under an
pollcl-s. The 1nsurance 1ndustry has apparently conned a cozporatlon
to act as the fundlng source and coordlnatlng body to pursue 1:5
actlvl 1e: 1n key 1n5urance cases.
In responSE, the Offlce of General
Counsel 1: seeklng the partlclpatlon of other 1nterested assoclatlons
m oranlze to respond on behalf of 1nsured companles 1n some of these
cases.
Regul.tory Litigation. The Offlce of General Counsel 1:
curre tly engaged 1n two key court actlons challenglng regulatlons 1n
the s perfund area.
In th- Natlonal Contlngency Plan (NC?)
lltlg.tlon, CMA and the other petltloners are meetlng mm the
gover ‘ ant to dlscuss posslble resolutlon of the challenge 1n llght of
Super-und reauthorlzatlon and the forthcomlng revlslon of the NC?
requl ed by that statute.
In th. other sult, CMA has challenged the
flnal natural resource damage assessment regulatlons promulgated by
the D-partment of Interlor. Several states and one envlronmental
group have also challenged the regulatlons. The lltlgatlon 1: 1n 3
prell 1nary stage, pendlng consolldatlon of the eases and the settlng
of a nrleflng schedule by the court.
Superund Implementatlon Actlvltles. As part of 1:5 Superfund
1mpleentatlon effort, the Offlce of General counsel Will be worklng
mm me Ad Hoc Superfund Counsel Group to pursue ways to 1mprove the
settlment process under Superfund. Th1: group 1ncludes Superfund
lawyes from member companles who are 1nterested 1n sharlng concerns
arlsl g out of thelr Superfund case experlences. As part of 1:5
actlv tles. the group will be looklng at EPA and Department of Justlce
enforement and settlement pollcles and can serve as a resource for
CMA avocacy actlvltles 1n these areas.
5. Co munlcatlons
The dpartment wrote an artlcle for the EPA Journal on the
potenlal effects of the amended RCRA and the reauthorlzed Superfund
laws “n waste*d15poslng 1ndustr1es.
Hazarwous Waste Management sncnm
1. Co gresslonal Developments and Response
The Rsource Conservatlon and Recovery Act 1: scheduled to be
reaut orlzed 1n 1999. Throughout 1937, Congress will be closely
evalu.te Envlronmental Protectlon Agency's luvplementatlon progress.
The A RCRA Regulatlons Task Groups contlnue m be Very actlve
1n re lewlng the RCRA regulatlons and provldlng guldance for thelr
mple entatlon.
In prparatlon for the 100th Congress, both the
Techncal and Government Relatlons Task Groups have been dlscusslng
lssue that they belleve need to be addressed 1n the RCRA
reaut orlzatlon debate. The task groups have identified a number of
lssue of potentlal concern to the chemlcal Industry. These lssues
Hill .e used as a startlng polnt for dlscusslon of posslble
leglslatlve changes.
12
CMA n 9754
CMA 1 actlvely communlcatlng Hlth members of Congress and 3111
5:36: who will be worklng on RCRA lssues 1n the next Congress.
Overlght hearlngs Will be held throughout 1997/99 on Varlous aspects
of EPA.
The mm task group will he conductlng two unportant actlvltles
earl 1n 1937. Flrst, they will conduct a semlnar/brleflng for CMA
Wash ngton representatlves on the 1994 RCRA amendments luvplementatlon
and he outlook for leglslatlve changes 1n 1997/99.
The -econd task group actlvlty would be a brleflng by CMA for key
3111 staff on RCRA 1mplementatlon and 1:5 unpact on the chemlcal
1ndu try. Th1: would create an opportunlty to dlscuss mm key 3111
stat some of the technlcal problems the chemlcal 1ndustry faces and
how a percelve luvplementatlon of the 1994 RCRA Amendments.
RCRA overslght hearlngs can be antlclpated throughout 1997/99.
In t a Senate. Senator Max Baucus ”Hm Will be taklng the lead 1n
the cm reauthorlzatlon.
In t e HouSE, we expect Congressman John
mngll (Drum and Congressman Jim Florlo (Drum to be the most actlve
1n R RA overslght hearlngs.
The mm debate will evolve slowly, mm the overslght hearlngs
foe sun; on EPA'S luvplementatlon of the 1994 Amendments. am will
con 1nue to provlde 1nformatlon to key members of Congress and thelr
stat.
Wasne Mlnlmlzatlon Program.
The Resource Conservatlon and
Recvery Act (RCRA7 requlres that companles establlsh Voluntary waste
mm mlzatlon programs for thelr operatlons and certlfy thelr actlons.
In 939, RCRA 1: scheduled to be reauthorlzed. At that tune.
Co res: Hill closely evaluate the progress that has been made 1n the
Ha e mlnlmlzatlon program. If progress 15 1nadequate. Congress will
selously conslder leglslatlng mandatory waste reductlon requlrements.
May cm member companles have a Welliestabllshed waste
In 1mlzatlon program 1n place; the companles have generally not
c- ‘ unlcated thls actlvlty and 1:: results to the publlc and Congress.
A's waste mlnlmlzatlon work group 15 developlng a plan for
ommunlcatlng mm member companles, the Congress and EPA, and the
general publlc. am has been meetlng Hlth congresslonal staff to
dlscuss thls issue. At thls point, 1: appears that waste mlnlmlzatlon
Will be a prlorlty lssue over the next few years.
1: 15 Very
1mportant that CMA member companles focus on thls lssue now. Although
Very llttle actlvlty 1: expected 1n the flrst part of 1937, waste
mlnlmlzatlon Will be an emerglng lssue over the next two years.
Underground Inlectlon Commlttee. The 1994 RCRA amendments
requlre EPA to detemlne whether underground 1njectlon should remaln
an option for the dlsposal of hazardous waste. Several envlronmental
groups, led by the Natural Resources Defense Councll (mum), have made
the ellmlnatlon of underground 1njectlon one of thelr major
13
CMA 039755
prlorltles. An EPA ban on new leglslatlon prohlbltlng underground
1njectlon would dlrectly affect the chemlcal 1ndustry, whlch 15 the
major user of underground 1njectlon for the dlsposal of hazardous
waste.
In an effort to answer the mum opposltlon to underground
1njectlon. the CMA Underground Injectlon Control Task Group has been
contactlng Congressmen who have dlsposal wells 1n thelr dlstrlcts to
reassure them about the safety of the technology. These contacts are
expected to contlnue on a regular basls as long as envlronmentallst
opposltlon to underground 1njectlon perslsts.
Although no hearlngs Will be held speclflcally on underground
1njectlon 1n early 1937, we expect the lssue m be addressed 1n RCRA
overslght hearlngs throughout the year. The 1ntroductlon of any
groundwater leglslatlon may also touch upon the practlce of
underground 1njectlon.
CMA Hill contlnue to comnunlcata Hlth Congress on underground
1njectlon. The lssue Hill begln m recelve more attentlon when
Congress returns 1n January 1937.
2. Regulatory Developments and Response
Land Dlsposal Prohibition Comments. CMA submltted comments on
EPA'S announcement of the avaliablllty of data and request for
comments on proposed land dlsposal restrlctlons. The flnal rule will
address the treatment requlrements for dlsposlng of speclfled
hazardous wastes 1n landfllls. CMA'S comments address the varlablllty
factor calculatlon, the outller test. data base modlflcatlons, and
Varlance from a treatment standard.
3. Pollcy Development, Analytlcal and Program Actlvltles
RCRA Regulatlons Workshop. cm sponsored a RCRA Regulatlons
Workshop on December 1112, 1935. Approxlmately 170 member company
representatlves partlclpated 1n the twoiday workshop. cm and EPA
representatlves addressed a Wide spectrum of RCRA luvplementatlon
lssues, 1.e., land dlsposal ban provlslons, organlc toxlclty proposal,
EPA hazardous waste strategy, mmmum technology and retroflt
requlrements. closure requlrements, hazardous waste tank rules, and
correctlve actlon requlrements.
4. thlgatlon and Related Actlvltles
CMA v. EPA (Closure rulel. cm 15 challenglng EPA'S flnal
closure rule that could severely 11m: the useful life of an
1mpoundment or landflll m recelve nonhazardous waste after 1: stops
recelvlng hazardous waste. The rule requlres the unlt to be closed
Hlthln 180 days of the flnal recelpt of hazardous waste. As such, the
unlt could not be used for the dlsposal of nonhazardous waste. EPA
has agreed to enter 1nto settlement negotlatlons, Hlth the brleflng
schedule stayed for nlnety days. am has proposed alternatlves other
than retroflttlng luvpoundments Hlth double llners and leachate
collectlon systems.
14
CMA 039755
Hazardous Waste Treatment Councll v. EPA (Land Dlsposal
Rastrlcuonsy. CMA has 1ntervened 1n a challenge by the Hazardous
Waste Treatment Councll m EPA'S November 7, 1935, flnal rule
restrlctlng the land dlsposal of solvents and dloxlns. CMA will
support EPA'S rule that 15 there 15 1nsufflc1ent capaclty to treat a
waste, the waste can be placed 1n an exlstlng unlt that 15 not
doublE*llned for up to two years whlle capaclty 15 bemg developed.
CMA plans to challenge other aspects of EPA'S flnal rule.
Speclflcally, am will challenge the fact that the treatment levels
requlred for solvents and dloxlns are set at concentratlons that are
even below the concentratlons EPA proposes to use for conslderlng such
compounds to be hazardous wastes. CMA Will also challenge EPA'S
llmltatlon of "no mlgratlon" petltlons to 1nd1v1dual wastes at
1nd1v1dual unlts. "No mlgratlon" petltlons seek an exceptlon from the
ban on land dlsposal. Flnally, cm may challenge EPA'S requlrement m
use a zero headspace extractor (zaEy for Volatlles when assesslng the
concentratlon of wastes to determlne 15 they can be landfllled. The
Varlablllty of the ZHE 15 excesslve.
Drganlc Leachate Model. CMA has petltloned for revlew of the
Agency's November 13, 1935, rule adoptlng the organlc leachate model
for dellstlng organlc wastes 1n landfllls. am will challenge EPA'S
refusal to adopt crlterla for conslderlng 51te*speclflc factors when
decldlng m dellst hazardous waste. Noniconslderatlon of
51te*speclflc factors will lead to too many wastes bemg llsted as
hazardous wastes and too few belng dellsted.
Groundwater (Includes Safe Drlnklng Water Acm
1. Congresslonal Developments And Response
For some tune. CMA has been developmg 1:5 advocacy posltlon on
federal groundwater leglslatlon. cm contlnues m belleve groundwater
protectlon 15 an 1mportant issue. Federal leglslatlon could establlsh
new concepts for groundwater protectlon or remedlatlon actlvltles
whlch Hill llkely result 1n Significant costs to the 1ndustry.
1:
could also impose use restrlctlons on certaln products, such as
pestlcldes. detergents, solvents, and others.
1: may also result 1n
new concepts concernlng product llablllty, 1nclud1ng federal causes of
actlon, Victims compensatlon and new taxlng mechanlsms.
CMA has been a major partlclpant 1n groundwater lssues to date.
CMA took an actlve role 1n EPA'S development of 1:5 Natlonal
Groundwater Pollcy, whlch was released 1n August, 1934. am has
worked mm several state leglslatures, an area that has been
partlcularly actlve 1n recent years. Congresslonal testlmony was
presented on four occaslons, addresslng both groundwater provlslons 1n
the Safe Drlnklng Water Act and, most recently 1n October, 1935,
dlrectly on groundwater protectlon lssues.
The Government Relatlons Commlttee's Groundwater Task Group has
already begun educatlng key Congresslonal staff on some of the
fundamental pollcy lssues. For example, CMA has long felt that
states. and not the Federal Government. should have prlmary
15
CMA 039757
3. thlgatlon and Related Legal Actlvltles
RMCL Litigation. Erleflng 15 now completed 1n the v_c. Clrcult
case challenglng EPA'S Recommended Maxlmum Contamlnant Levels (RMCL57
for eight synthetlc organlc substances. EPA has ﬁlled 1:: response to
the brlefs ﬁlled by cm and the Amerlcan Petroleum Instltute (APB
(jolntlw, the Halogenated Solvents Industry Alllance msmy, and the
Natural Resources Defense Councll (mum. on October 20, 1935, the
challenglng partles ﬁlled thelr addltlonal brlefs replylng m the EPA
posltlon. cm and AP]: ﬁlled separate reply brlefs, AP]: concentratlng
on the "zero RMCL" lssue and cm brleflng the issue, ralsed by mum,
of whether EPA must regulate a substance as a carclnogen 15 there 15
am! evldence of carclnogenlclty. Oral argument Will be held on
February 27, 1937. A declslon 1: expected 1n late summer or fall,
1937.
Surface Water
1. Congresslonal Developments and Response
The 99th Congress unanlmously passed the Water Quallty Act of
1995 15. 11287 just prior to adjournment. on October 23, CMA sent a
letter to Presldent Reagan urglng mm to Sign the compromlse mu
based upon the programmatlc content. The Presldent vetoed the mm on
Novembar 7, cltlng the 5m Mllton price tag for the constructlon
grants program.
In the 100th Congress, House and Senate leaders have vowed to
1ntroduce the same b111, as 3.x. 1 and s. 1. They plan to avold
referral of the mu m commlttee and to seek House and Senate
passage, desplte threats of floor amendments and another presldentlal
Veto. mule commlttee and subcommlttee chalrmen responslble for clean
water have changed 1n both the Senate and the House, the new leaders
say that they are equally commltted m passage of the same mu.
CMA contlnues to be generally supportlve of leglslatlon 1dent1cal
m the comer s. 1128, and 15 worklng to make certaln that the
Valuable floor statements that supplemented s. 1129 are repeated and
not compromlsed by opponents' statements. CMA malntalns communlcatlon
mm other 1ndustry and munlclpal groups regardlng clean water
leglslatlon. but contlnues to serve as the 1ndustry leader on 1::
prlmary lssues.
2. thlgatlon and Related Legal Actlvltles
Pestlcldes Effluent Guldellnes Litigation. on December 15,
1996, EPA publlshed a notlce 1n the Federal Reglster removlng the
pestleldes effluent guldellnes from the Code of Federal Regulatlons
and announclng that those rules "have not been effectlve as of July
25, 1995." Th1: actlon was taken as a result of the CMA/NACA lawsult
challenglng the pestlelde rules. EPA has 1nfomed cm and NACA that
the Agency plans to "start fresh" 1n developlng the next set of
effluent guldellnes for the pestlcldes 1ndustry. EPA will undertake a
17
CMA 039759
new data collectlon effort and Will also reevaluate pollcy and
technlcal aspects of the methodology used to develop the prevlous
effluent guldellnes. EPA does not expect to issue a new set of flnal
rules before June, 1991.
Removal Credlts Litigation. The Federal Government has declded
not to Elle an appeal of the mum Clrcult's removal credlts
declslon.
Instead, on December 19, 1936, the government ﬁlled a brlef
mm the Supreme Court respondlng m the petltlons ﬁlled by cm and by
a group of affected partles from Chlcago. The government agreed Hlth
CMA that the Thlrd Clrcult ruled 1ncorrectly on the sludge issue, and
agreed mm am that the case would have major unpacts on 1ndustry.
Nevertheless, the government recommended that the Court not hear the
Cass. because the government "does not belleve that the legal lssues
presented warrant further revlew.... mum's response to CMA'S petition
was due January 15.
Alr
1. Congresslonal Developments and Response
When the 99th Congress adjourned, all of the acld raln mus
House and Senate W had been hlndered by 1nterreglonal confllct and
slowed by opposltlon from electrlclty producers and users 1nclud1ng
the chemlcal 1ndustry. The only leglslatlon that passed pertaining to
clean alr was Tltle III of Superfund Amendments Reauthorlzatlon Act
coverlng emlsslons reportlng, emergency plannlng and communlty
rlghtitoiknow.
Early 1n 1937, the Clean Alr Act amendments debate 15 llkely to
resume mm focus on acld raln control leglslatlon. Thus, there
probably will be tune to conslder other amendments to the Clean Alr
Act. Three major lssues are the 1997 nonfattalnment deadllnes for
ozone and carbon monoxldE, alr toxlcs control and fluorocarbon control.
By Sprlng 1937, clean alr hearlngs probably will be underway 1n
both the House and Senate. The change 1n Senate leadershlp does not
affect the Envlronment and Publlc Vorks Commlttee's agenda for air
leglslatlon. But 1: does put new Majorlty Header Robert Byrd (DrwvAy
1n 3 unlque posltlon m 1nfluence the outcome of any air leglslatlon
that contalns an onerous acld raln control provlslon.
In the HouSE, Energy and Commerce Commlttee Chalrman John mngen
mimy remalns opposed to onerous acld raln control leglslatlon;
however. ranklng mlnorlty member Norman Lent miuxq was a co*sponsor
c the major House acld raln control mu 1n the 99th Congress. Untll
all members of the Commlttee and of the Health and Envlronment
Subcommlttee are selected. 1: 15 dlfflcult to assess potentlal Votes.
. cm 15 a major partlclpant 1n the 1nter71ndustry Coalltlon on
clean alr. CMA provldes the leadershlp on the hazardous alr
pollutants control iSSuE, but malntalns strong 1nput on other
statlonary source lssues 1nclud1ng acld raln.
19
2. Alr Toxlca Pollcy Imp lamentatlon
Alr Toxlca Resource Manual. CMA has publlshed a comprehenslve
resource manual to 35515: members 1n unplementlng the alr toxlcs
control pollcy. The resource manual was malled to each member
company's alr toxlcs coordlnator. Addltlonal Copies are avaliable at
reproductlon cost upon request. The manual provldes Valuable
1nformatlon to 35515: member companles 1n deslgnlng approprlate
programs to minimize accldental releases and to control process
emlsslons. Copies of the resource manual are bemg provlded to EPA,
state agencles, and other concerned partles.
Workshop on Emlsslon Imrentorles and Assessments. am has
developed a twoiday workshop to provlde emlsslons 1nventory and
assessments 1nformatlon that Hill 35515: member companles 1n the
1mplementatlon of an Alr Toxlcs Control Program. The workshop, held
on January 1314, 1937, hlghllghts 1ncluded:
o
o
o
o
o
o
emlsslon 1nventory technlques,
updated fugitive emlsslons procedures,
notlflcatlon and reportlng requlrements,
modellng for accldental releases,
screenlng methodologles, and
modellng for routlne releases.
An EPA spokesman will address EPA'S publlcatlon, "Implementlng the EPA
Alr Toxlcs Pollcy", and u. E. Wenger of the Unlverslty of Delaware
Dlsaster Research Center will address "Human Response Durlng Crisis".
Communlcatlons Workshop 7 Alr Toxlcs Control Pollcy. CMA has
developed a workshop 1n response to many member companles requests for
asslstance 1n how to communlcate alr toxlcs lssues. The workshop,
held on January 20, 1937, addressed rlsk lssues and how to bulld on
exlstlng CAER networks. The workshop used a "handsmn... approach mm
1nd1v1dual partlclpants worklng through the steps needed to develop
communlcatlons messages and actlon plans for thelr own facilities.
State Accldental Release Preventlon and Control Issue Analysls.
The Envlronmental Management Commlttee has developed, for use by the
State Affalrs CommlttEE, an Issue Analysls on Accldental Release
preventlon and control. The document develops guldance that 15
conslstent mm exlstlng cm pollcy that 15 readlly usable by cm
member companles 1n state actlvltles. The objectlve 15 m obtaln
relatlvely unlform and ratlonal state and local regulatlons that
upgrade control of all sources handllng Significant quantltles of
hlghly toxlc materlals wlthout penallzlng sources already perfomlng
to good 1ndustry practlces.
3. Grassroots Actlvltles
Congresslonal Liaison Representatlves (any are establlshlng
dlstrlct coalltlons of chemlcal company representatlves and other
partles Hlth an 1nterest 1n air toxlcs leglslatlon. These coalltlons
are meetlng to revlew the lssue and tallor a speclflc message around
19
CMA 039751
CMA general prlnclples on air toxlcs. Meetlngs between the coalltlons
and key leglslators Will be held durlng the spring and summer to
educate leglslators on 1ndustry operatlons and CMA'S posltlons.
Members of Congress have been 1dent1£1ed as key members on air
toxlcs on the basls of membershlp on the congresslonal commlttees of
jurlsdlctlon as well as a large 1ndustry constltuent presence 1n thelr
dlstrlcts. The 115: of members so 1dent1£1ed for actlvlty 1n the
Grassroots Program will be revlewed as new congresslonal commlttee
asslgnments are made, and revlsed, accordlngly.
4. Regulatory Developments and Response
Industrlal Bollars New Source Performance Standards. CMA
submltted comments on EPA'S proposed standards of perfomance for new
statlonary sources, lndustr1al*commcrclali1nst1tutlonal steam
generatlng unlts. cm crltlclzed the 90:1 reductlon requlrement as
nelther practlcal nor cost effectlve for small hollers. cm
recommended that the Agency set emlsslon limits that can be met by
Either fuel electlon. praicleanlng, or scrubblng whlchever 15 most
cost effectlve.
In addltlon. CMA noted that the proposed NSPS 15 1ncon515tent
mm other 1mportant natlonal goals.
In thls regard, 1: contradlcts
v.5. energy pollcy by dlscouraglng the use of coal, our most abundant
energy resource. Addltlonally, the effects of the proposed regulatlon
could run counter to the 1ntent of the Clean Alr Act 1n reduclng
emlsslons. The unreallstlc requlrement for so. emlsslon reductlons
could encourage contlnued operatlon of exlstlng, less efflclent
hollers. CMA urged EPA to reconslder 1:5 proposal and lssue a less
onerous standard whlch would not deter the use of coal and would be
cost effectlve.
5. thlgatlon and Related Actlvltles
Vlnvl Chlorlde Litigation. cm won a major Vlctory 1n 3 case
1nvolv1ng Sectlon 112 of the Clean Alr Act. The declslon provldes EPA
mm more dlscretlon 1n settlng reasonable clean air standards. cm
partlclpated 1n thls esse, supportlng EPA'S posltlon that the Agency
can conslder cost and technologlcal feaslblllty 1n settlng emlsslon
standards.
The Natural Resources Defense Councll (mum argued that Sectlon
112 permlts only the conslderatlon of healthibased factors.
Therefore. 1n thelr new, EPA could not take 1nto account cost and
technologlcal feaslblllty.
The v.5. Court of Appeals for the v_c. Clrcult, however, held
that EPA has some dlscretlon 1n settlng emlsslon standards.
1::
November 4, 1936, declslon afflrmed that EPA had acted reasonably 1n
wlthdrawlng proposed amendments on Vinyl chlorlde after conslderlng
the cost to 1ndustry and the technologlcal feaslblllty of compllance.
20
CMA 039752
mum has asked for a rehearlng of the case.
If the declslon 15
upheld. 1: 1: expected to affect slmllar lltlgatlon 1nvolv1ng benzene
and radlonuclldes standards.
Benzene and Radlonuclldes Litigation. on November 20, 1935,
CMA ﬁlled supplemental brlefs 1n the benzene and the radlonuclldes
lltlgatlon mm the v.5. Court of Appeals for the v_c. Clrcult. The
brlefs were requested by the court to help assess the unpact of the
recent Vinyl chlorlde declslon on these two cases. Both 1nvolve an
issue slmllar to that 1n the Vinyl chlorlde case: whether EPA may
conslder cost and technologlcal feaslblllty 1n settlng emlsslon
standards. Oral argument has been scheduled for May 25, 1937.
a. Communlcatlons
Communlcatlons Department 15 produclng an lssues book for the Ad
Hoc Accldental Release Preventlon and Control Group. Dlstrlbutlon 15
targeted for mldiJanuary. The book will descrlbe leglslatlve and
regulatory lssues focused on preventlon and control of accldental
releases from chemlcal facilities.
A semlnar on air toxlcs pollcy communlcatlon was conducted for an
expected 150 attendees 1n Houston. The semlnar targeted for plant
managers, was deslgned to 35515: those attendlng develop slte speclflc
communlcatlon plans.
mm the support of the Communlcatlons Commlttee and CMA'S
communlcatlons staff, the Loulslana Chemlcal Assoclatlon 15 developlng
plans to 1mplement an alr toxlcs communlcatlon plan. Thelr experlence
Will be shared mm other state organlzatlons.
Chemlcal Product Dlstrlbutlon Advocacy
1. Congresslonal Developments and Response
Hazardous Materlals Transportatlon Act.
The Hazardous
Materlals Transportatlon Act (HMTA7 was scheduled to be consldered for
reauthorlzatlon 1n the 99th Congress. mm the exceptlon of one day
of hearlngs before a subcomlttee, no actlon was taken on the matter.
Fundlng to contlnue the actlvltles whlch the Act regulates was
1ncluded 1n the contlnulng resolutlon whlch Congress passed just prior
to adjournment. As the Act contalns no sunset provlslons, offlclals
at the Department of Transportatlon are satlsfled that, for the time
bemg, thls congresslonal actlon was sufflclent to malntaln the
programs covered by the Act.
Nevertheless, 1: 15 antlclpated that there are a number of
Congressmen who would llke to see the Act reopened for addltlonal
amendments. Accordlngly, extenslve actlvlty on HMTA 1: expected 1n
the 100th Congress.
CMA plans to take the posltlon paper approved by the Board last
January and draft proposed leglslatlve language whlch could be used
for the Act's reauthorlzatlon. The Government Relatlons Commlttee...s
21
CMA 039753
Transportatlon Task Group will V151: key Congressmen durlng the flrst
part of the year seeklng sponsors for CMA'S suggested revlslons to the
exlstlng law.
Drlver Llcenslng. The Drug 13111 whlch passed the Congress at
the end of the last sesslon 1ncluded provlslons deallng Hlth the
commerclal llcenslng of truck drlvers. Currently, there are no
natlonal standards. The new law would 5:111 allow drlvers to be
llcensed by 1nd1v1dual states, but Will establlsh a system whlch Will
not allow multlple state llcenses as 15 now the case. The new
standards must be 1n effect by 1992. am has been 1n favor of
requlrements whlch would requlre only a smgle commerclal llcense for
drlvers.
Incldent Reportlng.
In the closmg days of the last Congress,
a law was enacted to reauthorlze Superfund. Under the rlghtitoiknow
provlslons of Tltle III of the law reauthorlzlng Superfund, some
addltlonal requlrements have been added on the reportlng of spllls of
hazardous materlals.
In addltlon to the current requlrements that
1nc1dents must be reported to the Natlonal Response Center, the
1nc1dent must now also be reported to the local emergency responder.
Requests for comments on proposed ruleﬂ'naklng 1n thls area are
currently belng sollclted and CMA plans :9 Elle comments.
2. Regulatory Developments and Response
Shlpplng Act Revlew. The Federal Marltlme Admlnlstratlon, Hlth
CMA'S cooperatlon, has begun to recelve 1nput from chemlcal shlppers
on the favorablE. as well as unfavorable. aspects of the Shlpplng Act
of 1934. The Dlstrlbutlon Commlttee has prioritized 1:5 advocacy
plans. ngh prlorlty ltems 1nclude: prohibit ocean carrler
conferences; deregulate authorlty over servlce contracts; contlnue
mandatory rlght of 1ndependent actlon; and, prohibit cargo reservatlon
bllaterals.
MARPDL Annex II. CMA ﬁlled comments mm the v.5. Coast Guard
on 1:: proposed rules luvplementlng the MARPDL Annex II provlslons for
the 1nternatlonal bulk. shlpment of chemlcals by Vessels. Much of the
CMA comments focused on the procedures for cleanlng cargo ships and
dlsposal of resldue.
MARPDL Annex 111. cm provlded the v.5. Coast Guard Hlth
technlcal comments on a posltlon paper the Coast Guard plans to
1ntroduce before the UN Internatlonal Marltlme Drganlzatlon. The
paper focuses on the expanslon of the 1nternatlonal requlrements for
packaged chemlcal shlpments m addltlonal classes of materlals. cm
convlnced Coast Guard to modlfy 1:5 posltlon paper.
Dlstrlct of Columbla Hazardous Materlals Study Commlsslon. CMA
1: represented on a speclal commlsslon establlshed by the Dlstrlct of
Columbla to assess the potentlal rlsks posed by the transportatlon of
hazardous materlals. and to fom the Dlstrlct's pollcles towards
controlllng these rlsks.
22
Tank Car Allowance System. cm jolned mm other tank car
provlders 1n submlttlng comments to the Interstate Commerce Commlsslon
1n reply to the rallroad's petition for clarlflcatlon on the tank car
allowance system. cm supported the Commlsslon's 1ntezpretatlon of
how the rules should be applled. cm noted that the partles to the
negotlated agreement, whlch was subsequently adopted by the
Commlsslon, declded to leave for future resolutlon the evldence that
would be relevant 1n the 1nvest1gatlon of a departure from the
natlonal tank car allowance system.
Rallroad Cost Recovery Procedures. The Supreme Court has
denled the rallroad's last dltch effort to obtaln a stay of the ICC's
declslon served October 17 1n Ex Parts 290 (Sub. No. 27, rallroad cost
recovery procedures. CMA had already ﬁlled a reply mm the
Commlsslon opposlng the rallroad's request for a stay. The effeet of
the cancellatlon Will be to roll back set recovery based rates to the
December. 1935, level.
Peru Cargo Reservatlon. CMA sent comments to the Federal
Marltlme Commlsslon urglng them to seek an 1njunctlon of the equal
access agreements regardlng U.S./Peru trade. CMA noted that such
agreements would 1nst1tutlonallze cargo reservatlon 1n the U.S./Peru
trade, and would subsequently pose severe llmltatlons on the
competltlve servlce of thlrdiflag carrlers that have prevlously been
offerlng the most frequent and rellable servlce.
Brazll Ellateral. cm sent a letter to the Department of
Transportatlon urging nonrenewal of the U.S./Brazlllan bllateral
agreement on cargo reservatlon. The bllateral condone: Brazll's cargo
reservatlon laws whlch requlre v.5. exporters to Ship approxlmately en
cent of thelr tonnage on v.5. or Brazlllan flag Vessels. cm noted
th v.5. chemlcal exporters/shlppers arc serlously hampered by these
requ rements. Notwlthstandlng CMA'S urglng, the v.5. Signed a threeyear agreement that would contlnue cargo reservatlon 1n the trade.
One in 1gb: spot 15 that the agreement does not condone the reservatlon
of bul cargo.
Hazard s Substances. cm furnlshed the Department of
Transpo tatlon mm comments outllnlng problems the chemlcal 1ndustry
Hill hav 1n trylng to comply mm the provlslons of the Superfund
Amendment and Reauthorlzatlon Act calllng for the regulatlon of
hazardous substances for transportatlon.
3. Pollcy evelopment, Analytlcal and Program Actlvltles
Transports lon Rlsk Management. Work 15 contlnulng on the
development of a chemlcal transportatlon rlsk management system.
Indlvldual ompany programs are bemg analyzed for generlc features
that can be sad 1ndustryw1de to further safeguard agalnst the
accldental r lease of chemlcals. cm and the Assoclatlon of Amerlcan
Rallroads ha jolntly revlewed several systems Hlth the 1ntent to
develop a nil chemlcal transportatlon rlsk management model.
Indlvldual sh pars and carrlers could use thls model to assess the
relatlve rlsk c Varlous routes and contalners.
23
CMA 039755
Warehouse Safe: Program. The Dlstrlbutlon and Health and
Safety Commltte s have formed a jolnt worklng group to develop a
program to enha e the safe storage of chemlcals 1n warehouses. Th1:
group has revlew d several exlstlng chemlcal company programs, and 15
now developlng a general package that companles can use when revlewlng
the safety progra s of 1nd1v1dual warehouses.
Dlstrlbutlon Dutr ash Actlvltles. The Dlstrlbutlon Commlttee's
Outreach Task Gro p 15 currently revlslng the cm publlcatlon
"Transportlng Che c515 Safely." Th1: Will be used as part of the
Commlttee's effort to communlcate the positive steps the chemlcal
1ndustry has taken to reduce the probablllty of an accldental release
durlng transportatlon.
Expanslon of the CA R Program to Transportatlon. The
Dlstrlbutlon Commlt es and the Health and Safety Commlttee have jolned
forces to promote t e expanslon of the Communlty Awareness and
Emergency Response ogram to the transportatlon communlty. Local
communltles that are exposed to the transportatlon of chemlcals should
have emergency respo 5e contlngency plans 1n place. cm 15 worklng
mm representatlves of the trucklng 1ndustry to reach these
communltles Hlth the ER program.
Natlonal Chemlcal Res onse and Informatlon Center (NCRIC7
1. cammm
camnmc ended 1995 R th 3 record number of calls 77 for the
flrst time, emergency sports recelved exceeded 4,000 14,239 actual)
1n a year's tune. Over 1935, call Volume 1ncreased 23%; 1ncluded 1n
thls 1ncrease was a su ge 1n medlcal emergencles and other
nontransportatlon emer ncles and a modest 1ncrease 1n transportatlon
emergencles.
camnmc now has two so unlcators on duty from 7:30 a.m.ll:3D p.m., Monday through Frlday. To accommodate thls change,
camnmc adopted a 427d y shlft rotatlon work schedule Versus the
237d” rotatlon 1n use nae 1971. The new shlft schedule offers
several dlstlnct advanta es, namely, fewer night shlfts to work 19
versus 137. and a doubll g of weekends off 125 Versus 127. The new
schedule should go a lon way toward reduclng jobirelated stress and
1ncrease morale.
A total of 1,947 chemlcal records are now loaded 1n the chemlcal
database. There are now 2 a generlc guldes for the cammm Emergency
Response Gulde llbrary.
camnmc has provlded CAB Hlth 1:5 requlrements for
partlclpatlng 1n communlt Hide emergency drllls for hazardous
materlals. and has been 1n olved 1n two CAEkirelated drllls.
Interest 1n the Hazard Inf rmatlon Transmlsslon mm program
contlnues space. Slnce the last report, there have been 129 inquiries
about the program (HIT bro ures have been malled, m eacm. Currently
24
CMA 039755
there are 94 actlve partlclpants located 1n 25 states, and an
appllcants belng processed.
The Salvage Drum Cooperatlve program has 155 members as of
November. 1935, mm drum locatlons 1n 47 states. 2 Canadlan
terrltorles, and Puerto Rico. The program 15 currently belng updated
and a new prlntlng Will be lssued 1n February, 1937.
In December. CHEMTREC responded to three 1nc1dents 1nvolv1ng
Either forelgn producers or shlppers. on December 14, the Suffren,
New York Fire Department was called to an apparent flre 1n 3 Japanese
restaurant.
1: turned out that a fumlgant was belng used to klll
1nsects. Flreflghters were exposed to the fumes. Label marklngs on
the Contalner were 1n Japanese mm the only clue 1n Engllsh bemg the
word "Chugal" whlch, 1: turns out, means "bug". An overseas call to
the Japanese producer dld not yleld results, but the manufacturer's
phone number was passed to the flre department for product
identification at a later tune.
2. CHEMNET
The camum program now has 79 members, 39 partlclpants and 40
subscrlbers. Vhen subsldlarles of members are 1ncluded, companles
covered by the program total 122.
The cammEc/cammm Work Group 15 now 1n the process of
revlewlng membershlp appllcatlons from soymre contractors. Four
appllcatlons have been recommended to the group. The selectlon
process should be completed by the end of January.
3. Chemlcal Referral Center
Worklng from a computer database that now contalns product
proflles on 103,000 chemlcals, the Chemlcal Referral Center (cum
contlnues to 35515: approxlmately gun callers per month. Between
December. 1935, and December. 1936, the CR: responded to over 11,900
requests from the general publlc for nonemergency health and safety
1nfomatlon on chemlcals.
The CRC staff have been worklng on a report descrlblng the
Center's actlvltles durlng 1:5 flrst year of operatlon. Th1: document
will be dlstrlbuted to the 2am chemlcal companles currently
partlclpatlng 1n the cue.
Emergency Response Training
Lendlng lerary. In flfteen months of operatlon the Lendlng
lerary has loaned more than 2,400 training programs to emergency
response personnel 1n the publlc sector. These programs have been
shown to more than 129,000 emergency responders. There are fourteen
programs 1n the llbrary and we have 1dent1£1ed several new programs
that Will be added.
25
CMA 039757
Flrst Responder Training Programs. The most popular training
program 1n the llbrary 15 5:111 "Flrst on the Scene," the flrst
responder training Vldeotape produced by am. More than a thousand
Copies have been borrowed from the llbrary and over 3,200 Copies have
been dlstrlbuted free or sold at the cost of reproduclng the tape.
The Canadlan Center for Dccupatlonal Safety and Health 15 plannlng to
convert the tape 1nto French and dlstrlbute 1: 1n Canada.
The new Vldeotape training program, "Teamwork W Safe Handllng of
3 Hazardous Materlals Incldent" should be ready for dlstrlbutlon at
the end of January. Th1: program stresses the need for preplannlng;
establlshlng who 1: 1n charge and the Varlous roles of the responders;
identifying sources of asslstance, and how to actlvate them; the need
to work mm the medla and the 1mportance of a postilncldent
Critique. These points are demonstrated 1n 3 scenarlo 1nvolv1ng an
overturned tank truck that 15 leaklng a flammable polsonous materlal.
The scenarlo takes you through each phase of the 1nc1dent from the
tune 1: happened through cleanup and the Critique. 1: Will be an
excellent sequel to "Flrst on the Scene."
The second Standard Phraseology Manual, on all types of
packaglngs used to transport chemlcals, 1: 1n the flnal revlew
process. The manual should be avaliable for dlstrlbutlon 1n the
Sprlng of 1937.
K. Internatlonal Regulatory Issues (Health. Safety and Envlronment"
1. Internatlonal Drganlzatlons
Unlted Natlons. cm staff met recently Hlth Dr. Noel Brown,
Dlrector of the New York offlce of the Unlted Natlons Envlronment
Programme mmpy. Early next year mmp will propose three
1nternatlonal conventlons almed at avoiding chemlcal accldents (such
as the recent Rheln 1nc1dent7 and unprovlng hazard communlcatlon m
the publlc. Mr. Roland has communlcated mm Dr. Mostafa Tolba,
Executlve Dlrector of UNEP. outllnlng CMA'S CAER program and CMA'S
expertlse 1n craftlng workable communlty awareness programs.
Drganlzatlon for Economlc Cooperatlon and Development 10mm.
The Internatlonal Affalrs Group (may has been worklng Hlth the v.5.
Councll for Internatlonal Buslness/Buslness and Industry Advlsory
Commlttee m the 0mm (USCIB/BIAC7 1n preparlng comments on agenda
ltems for the March. 1937, 0mm mum ngh Level Meetlng. The Meetlng
Hill 1nclude ministerial level partlclpants (e.g., EPA Admlnlstrator
Lee Thomas) and will focus on regulatory programs for exlstlng
chemlcals, chemlcal rlsk management and rlsk assessment. The ma Hill
provlde addltlonal comments on the ngh Level Meetlng documents 1n
January.
2. Internatlonal Regulatlons
Labellng. The v.5. Trade Representatlve will host the second
bllateral technlcal dlscusslons between the Commlsslon of the European
Communlty and the v.5. Government January 20721 1n Washlngton. The
25
dlscusslons Will be on the proposed European Communlty may General
Preparatlons Dlrectlve 15pm. am has prepared comments for the ma,
supplementlng CMA'S objectlons m the cm: Volced 1n January, 1935.
The addltlonal comments hlghllght 1ndustry's contlnulng problems mm
the restrlctlve labellng requlrements of the cw.
The jolnt ms, Canadlan Chemlcal Producers Assoclatlon (ccpm,
and European Councll of Chemlcal Manufacturers Federatlons (CEFIC7
paper on The Identlflcatlon and Classlflcatlon of Carclnogens,
Mutagens and Teratogens Will be publlshed 1n the March, 1997, lssue of
Regulatory Pharmacology and Toxlcology. The crlterla paper 15
galnlng 1nternatlonal acceptance as the approprlate methodology for
classlflcatlon of potentlal health hazards. The revlsed ANSI labellng
standard, now bemg updated by CMA'S Health and Safety Commlttee, Hill
contaln the crlterla paper as an appendlx.
Inventory. cm recently prepared for ma submlsslon a letter
to the v.5. Department of State relteratlng 1ndustry's problems Hlth
the Unlted Natlons scicalled "Consolldated Llst" of banned or severely
restrlcted chemlcal substances. The 115: complles regulatory
1nfomatlon and commerclal data on speclflc chemlcals, and has been
shown to contaln Significant errors. The mlstakes may well result 1n
the boycott of the products of v.5. ﬁlms. The letter urged the
Department of State to ensure that the crlterla for 1dentlfy1ng
chemlcals m be 1ncluded on the L15: 1: conslstently and accurately
applled.
Internatlonal Trade/Internatlonal Competltlveness
1. Congresslonal Developments and Response
Omnlbus Trade Law. Leaders of both Houses of Congress say
that a trade mu Will be ready for the Presldent's signature by May,
1937. That may be a Very ambltlous goal. Extenslve hearlngs were
held 1n the House of Representatlves durlng the last Congress,
produclng an equally extenslve trade mm 13.11. 490m whlch the
Admlnlstratlon promlsed to Veto. Whlle the hearlngs on the Senate
slde were also numerous, the Flnance Commlttee falled to report a
mm. The Flnance CommlttEE, of courSE, has a new look 1n the current
Congress Hlth control of the Senate back to the Democratlc Party.
Senator Bentsen plans to 1ntroduce a mu whlch 15 unllkely to be
Either llke the mu consldered prevlously by the Senate 15. many or
Over the last year, CMA'S Internatlonal Trade Commlttee (ITcy has
been provldlng the Board of Dlrectors mm suggested posltlons on
needed modlflcatlons m a number of elements of exlstlng trade law.
Consequently, CMA 1: 1n an excellent posltlon to react to leglslatlve
overtures on any proposal for a new omnlbus trade mu.
CMA 15 contlnulng 1:5 lobbylng efforts on trade matters through
the Government Relatlons Commlttee'a Trade Task Group and through the
Coalltlon known as the Offlce of the Chemlcal Industry Trade Advlsor
mcrmy. DCITA'S prlmary focus 1: on assurlng that any new trade
27
CMA 039759
leglslatlon contalns language whlch would exempt unport sensltlve
ltems from tarlff reductlon conslderatlons.
In addltlon m the fallure of the prevlous Congress to pass any
omnlbus trade b111, 1: also falled to give flnal passage to the
numerous mlscellaneous trade and tarlff measures whlch provlde for
temporary reductlons or suspenslons of duty on speclfled ltems.
soCMA, also a member of DCITA. 15 attemptlng to have leglslatlon
1ntroduced whlch would allow for temporary duty suspenslon matters to
proceed admlnlstratlvely. The ITC 15 currently examlnlng thls lssue
m determlne whether to recommend that the cm endorse the 50cm
1n1tlatlve.
2. Internatlonal Negotlatlons/Agreements
Tarlff Negotlatlons. The next round of multllateral trade
n gotlatlons 1mm whlch Will be known as the Uruguay Round, has
my tten underway. When the Mlnlsters of the General Agreement on Trade
and Tarlffs (GATT) met 1n Uruguay 1n September, 1935, they agreed Hlth
great dlfflculty on an agenda for the negotlatlons. The last MTN,
known as the Tokyo Round, resulted 1n staged reductlons of tarlffs
whlch concluded mm the last reductlon occurrlng on January 1, 1937.
Whlle there 15 no certalnty on how long the negotlatlons Hill
contlnuE, the Unlted States 15 hopeful that some agreements can be
reached Within the next few years.
The possibility of such a rapid agreement may be optlmlstlc.
Tradltlonally, MTN rounds have been extremely lengthy processes.
Because of the protracted nature of the dlscusslons, cm members face
the danger of loslng 1nterest 1n 3 process whlch Hill profoundly
affect thelr dally operatlons. The Internatlonal Trade Commlttee
1mm 15 fully commltted m keeplng 1ndustry actlvlty at an
approprlate level.
CMA has already hosted a semlnar m 1nfom 1:: members of both
the process of the negotlatlons and the expected agendas that the
major GATT partlclpants Hill brlng m the dlscusslons. The CMA ITC 15
currently contemplatlng the formatlon of a 115: of chemlcals that the
govememnt should 1nvest1gate m determlne the product's degree of
import sensltlvlty.
In addltlon, a 115: of objectlves sought by the
1ndustry 15 also bemg consldered. Both actlvltles are 1n response to
overtures made to the 1ndustry by the Offlce of the v.5. Trade
Representatlve and the Department of Conanerce.
3. Legal
Praishlpment Inspectlon and Customs Valuatlon Procedures
Conducted by Prlvate Companles on Behalf of Forelgn Governments. In
September, the Offlce of the v.5. Trade Representatlve ms-my revlewed
a Sectlon 301 trade remedy petition ﬁlled by representatlves of v.5.
1ndustry. Th1: petition contested the quallty, quantlty, and price
inspectlons conducted 1n the Unlted States by prlvate praishlpment
1nspectlon companles that act as agents for governments of
twentyithree developmg countrles.
29
CMA 039770
Inspectlon companles have been known arbltrarlly to reject a v.5.
exporter's price and change the value of the goods for Customs
purposes 1n the importing country before clearlng them for shlpment.
Moreover. 1n conductlng thelr product and price comparlsons, the
1nspectlon companles request confldentlal busmess 1nformatlon from
exporters. often mm 1nadequate assurances for protectlon from
dlsclosure. Many v.5. exporters, 1nclud1ng v.5. chemlcal companles
(the majorlty of negatlve comments recelved by USTR on thls subject
came from v.5. chemlcal and phamaceutlcal companles), are havlng
dlfflculty meetlng contractual dellvery requlrements 1n countrles
whlch requlre such praishlpment clearance, and flnanclal settlements
are bemg delayed. These practlces also arguably Violate a number of
1nternatlonal agreements.
In late October, vsm declded not to 1n1tlate a fomal Sectlon
301 trade 1nvest1gatlon.
Instead, 1: 15 negotlatlng bllaterally Hlth
each of the twentyithree governments 1nvolved on an expedlted basls.
In addltlon, the v.5. Internatlonal Trade Commlsslon msmcy has
1n1tlated a study on the 1mpact of these praishlpment 1nspectlon
companles on v.5. 1ndustry trade. As part of thls study,
questlonnalres are bemg sent to v.5. companles, 1nclud1ng CMA member
companles. 1: 15 1mportant that these questlonnalres be filled out
and returned, so that the USITC can have an accurate readlng of the
burdens put on 1ndustry by these praishlpment practlces. cm 15
worklng 1n an 1nformal 1ndustry Coalltlon to ensure that the chemlcal
1ndustry's concerns are addressed 1n the USTR negotlatlons and vsmc
study.
4. Communleatlons
The department coordlnated actlvltles for CMA'S annual economlc
news brleflng, 1nclud1ng development of materlals for the brleflng,
collateral dlstrlbutlon of the brleflng materlals and arrangements for
onsionione 1ntervlews Hlth key CMA staff.
Taxatlon
1. Congresslonal Developments and Response
The 511s, complexlty and mlstakes of the 1995 Tax Refom Act are
strong reasons to belleve Congress will agaln conslder major tax
leglslatlon 1n 1937.
In addltlon, many related leglslatlve areas
(such as trade leglslatlon) whlch are high on the 1997 Congresslonal
agenda may contaln 1mportant tax provlslons, for example, changes 1n
forelgn tax treatment. For these reasons cm agaln antlclpates
substantlal regulatory and leglslatlve tax actlvlty 1n the comlng year.
The Tax Pollcy Commlttee has establlshed a Tax Reform
Implementatlon Task Group to 1dentlfy leglslatlve and regulatory
Issues arising from the 1995 leglslatlon. The Task Group has dlvlded
1:5 asslgnments among Elva worklng groups that are now developmg
wrltten materlals on speclflc subject areas. The Tax Pollcy Commlttee
and the Government Relatlons Commlttee will develop a comprehenslve
tax leglslatlve work plan as more detall of the Congresslonal agenda
29
CMA 039771
unfolds. Although the 100th Congress will not convene untll
mldiJanuary, the CMA tax program for the new year Is well underway.
Patents and Protectlon of Technology
1. Congress
Patent Term Restoratlon.
Patent Term Restoratlon 1mm
leglslatlon was amended to the reauthorlzatlon of the Federal
Insectlclde. Funglclde, and Rodentlclde Act 1171me whlch falled m be
accepted by the Senate 1n the flnal days of the 99th Congress. The
agrlchemlcals 1ndustry became 1nvolved 1n negotlatlng changes to 17mm
largely because a group of envlronmentallsts objected :9 PTR
leglslatlon 1n the 98th Congress. The envlronmentallsts lobbled
Congress and 531d that so long as the 1ndustry refused to cooperate 1n
3 rewrlte of FIFRA. the envlronmental groups would actlvely oppose any
leglslatlon to extend the patents on pestlcldes.
In September, 1995, the House passed 17mm. and Patent Term
Restoratlon was reported out of the House Judlclary Subcommlttee and
the full Commlttee.
In contrast to the opposltlon 1n the 98th
Congress, PTR moved through the subcomlttee and the full commlttee
wlthout a smgle Member speaklng 1n opposltlon to the measure.
In
early October, 1935, the House passed PTR and again, no one spoke 1n
opposltlon to pm.
In addltlon, the 17mm package was amended to
pm. The House passed 17mm and PTR agaln 1n 3 dlfferent fom and
sent 1: back to the Senate where 1: eventually riled.
1: 1: expected that PTR leglslatlon Will be 1ntroduced early 1n
the 100th Congress. Based on 1nfomatlon from House Judlclary
Subcommlttee staff, 1: 15 llkely that the Subcommlttee will move
expedltlously to report out PTR leglslatlon. In the Senate, Hlth the
retlrement of Senator Mathlas mimm. 1: 15 not yet certaln who will
be the lead person on thls issue. am will contlnue to work Hlth the
1ndustry Coalltlon and play a supportlve role to the Natlonal
Agrlcultural Chemlcals Assoclatlon's efforts on thls issue. The
prospects for passage of PTR 1n 1997 Hill hlnge on the satlsfaatory,
resolutlon of confllcts among the 1ndustry, consumer/envlronmental
groups and the generlc producers on amendments to 17mm.
Process Patent Leglslatlon. Th1: leglslatlon would have
expanded the deflnltlon of patent 1nfr1ngement to cover 1mportatlon
1nto the Unlted States and use and sale 1n thls country of products
made abroad by processes patented 1n the v.5. Two Verslons of thls
leglslatlon passed the House and one Verslon passed the Senate durlng
the flnal days of the 99th Congress. Negotlatlons contlnued untll the
day Congress adjourned wlthout flnal approval.
The 1ndustry Coalltlon whlch had been 1nvolved 1n negotlatlng the
compromlse leglslatlon 1n the last Congress will be actlve on thls
lssue 1n the 100th Congress. The group 15 looklng to Senator Frank R.
Lautenberg (Drum to revlve thls issue, hopefully early 1n the new
sesslon. am will contlnue to support prompt passage of process
patent protectlon leglslatlon. The current evaslon of our patent law
an
CMA 039772
15 costly, not only 1n actual revenue lost but also to the number of
v.5. jobs that are actually lost to forelgn manufacturers.
Llablllty Refom and Insurance
1. Congresslonal Developments and Response
The product llablllty reform leglslatlon was passed out of the
Senate Commerce Commlttee and consldered on the Senate floor 1n the
99th Congress.
1: dld not pass the Senate nor was 1: consldered 1n
the House.
The 100th Congress has the Democrats 1n control of the House and
the Senate whlch Will Change the agenda for the product llablllty
issue.
Senator Ernest Holllngs misc) will now be the chalrman of the
Commerce Connlttee. Holllngs has long been a strong opponent of far
reachlng Federal product llablllty leglslatlon. Thus, He Will have to
Halt and see what his agenda will be for the Coasserce Commlttee. on
the House slde the ad hoc bkpartlsan product llablllty study group 15
looklng at the lssue and may make leglslatlve recommendatlons.
State Leglslatlve and Regulatory Advocacy
1. Liability Resom, Insurance and Publlc Compensatlon
Approxlmately 35 states passed some tort reform leglslatlon 1n
1935. Many of these laws dealt mm Single areas, such as daycare
centers or munlclpal llablllty. Only a few states, such as Colorado,
Connectlcut. Washlngton and Florlda, passed comprehenslve reform
mus. The lssues that saw the most actlvlty 1n 1995 were:
7 modlflcatlon or ellmlnatlon of jolnt and several liability
7 caps on nonieconomlc damages
7 collateral source rules to deal Hlth the problem of double
payments.
In most cases the chemlcal 1ndustry has shared 1n the beneflts of
general tort refom. However. injuries 1nvolv1ng hazardous substances
were partlally or, 1n some cases, completely excluded from some of the
Significant resoms, partlcularly the llmltatlon on jolnt and several
llablllty.
The Amerlcan Leglslatlve Exchange Councll, a natlonal
organlzatlon of approxlmately 2nnn conservatlve state leglslators,
adopted proposed leglslatlve language on tort recom lssues for
1ncluslon 1n the recently publlshed "Source Book of Amerlcan State
Leglslatlon, 1997799." CMA'S tort recom lssues resource book was
utlllzed 1n the development of thls language.
The contlnued concern over 1nsurance avaliablllty 15 llkely to
generate Significant actlvlty 1n 1937.
31
CMA 039773
2. Hazardous Vast: Management and Regulatlon
At the December meetlng of the Councll of State Governments 1:567
Subcommlttee on Suggested State Leglslatlon, the New Jersey
Envlronmental Cleanup Responslblllty Act (ECRA7 was agaln consldered
as a posslble model for other states. Th1: law serlously limits the
transfer of property untll slte contamlnatlon studles and cleanup have
been completed.
CMA'S State Affalrs Speclal mm Work Group 15 managlng thls
lssue 1n conjunctlon mm the New Jersey cm. The am has been
worklng dlrectly mm state offlclals to amend the law. As a result
prlmarlly of the CIC's work, (:56 subcommlttee Voted 1n December to
defer conslderatlon untll the state of New Jersey Verlfles the needed
changes. These changes will reportedly occur 1n the flrst half of
1997 and probably 1n tune for the flnal Vote by (:56 on model
leglslatlon durlng thelr summer meetlng. Some fom of an ECRA law
will more than llkely be consldered at that meetlng.
3. nghtitoiknow
The declslon 1n the lawsult brought by Pennsylvanla
manufacturers regardlng the appllcatlon of the state's rlghtitoiknow
law has been appealed to the Unlted States Supreme Court. Under a
lower court declslon lssued at the end of 1996, chemlcal manufacturers
could be requlred to prepare separate labels and MSDS'S for thelr
products shipped 1nto or used 1n Pennsylvanla. The 1ndustry's appeal
to the Supreme Court seeks to uphold and clarlfy the preemptlon of the
OSHA Hazard Communlcatlon Standard over state rlghtitoiknow lsw3. An
1njunctlon agalnst the 1mplementatlon of the state law, as 1: applies
to manufacturers, 1: 1n effect untll the court decldes whether or not
1: will accept the case.
4. Chemlcal Plant Safety
A top prlorlty for the new Chemlcal Safety Task Group 15 to
address state leglslatlon that would regulate chemlcal plant
processes. Several states consldered laws 1n 1995 and New Jersey
enacted a comprehenslve statute whlch requlres rlsk assessments and
rlsk management plans for certaln facilities. An lssues analysls
document has been developed by a comblned State Affalrs/EMC work group
and Will be dlstrlbuted to member company state affalrs contacts and
state CIC's 1n January.
The new task group 15 also worklng mm the CAER Task Group to
promote the CAER program as a method for states to unplement the
emergency response requlrements of Tltle III of the new Superfund Law.
5. Groundwater
The Callfornla Inltlatlve on Safe Drlnklng Water and Toxlcs
Enforcement Act of 1995 passed by the Voters 1n November by a margln
of 53 m 37, or roughly 2 to 1. Early 1n the summer, the odds were as
high as 10 to 1 1n favor of the Proposltlon.
So the publlc relatlons
32
CMA 039774
program> developed and 1mplemented by the 1ndustry coalltlon, had a
Significant 1mpact on the publlc's perceptlon of thls issue, however,
1: obvlously was not enough to change the outcome. There are some who
belleve that 15 the PR program had been started sooner, 1.e., fundlng
obtalned earller, our chances for success would have been greater.
Proposltlon as 15 now 1n the hands of the admlnlstratlon and the
leglslature. The flrst major 1mplementatlon date 15 March 1, 1937,
when the Governor must publlsh a 115: of affected chemlcals. A year
later, on March 1, 1939, the warnlng provlslons go 1nto effect and on
November 1, 1999 the dlscharge prohibitions become effectlve.
The 1ndustry Coalltlon Hill contlnue to work Hlth the
admlnlstratlon to unplement the law mm as llttle damage to the
Callfornla's economy as posslble. Hopefully, 1: Will be able to work
mm the leglslature m cleanup some of the provlslons 1n the
1n1tlatlve. A thorough legal evaluatlon resulted 1n the declslon not
to lltlgate at thls tune. mule there were some potentlal
constltutlonal grounds for challenglng the new law, 1: was the
consensus of the coalltlon's steerlng commlttee and legal counsel that
better opportunltles for lltlgatlon would occur durlng the
1mplementatlon of the law.
MeanwhllE, many envlronmental groups are seeklng to take the lead
1n unplementlng Proposltlon 55. There are even classlfled ads 1n the
Callfornla newspapers recrultlng "bounty hunters".
In fact. the
bounty hunter provlslon may be used as a membershlp entlcement for
envlronmental groups.
The CMA State Affalrs Commlttee has appolnted a speclal ad hoc
group to develop the chemlcal 1ndustry's recommended advocacy approach
to thls iSSuE, not only 1n Callfornla, but to the other states where
1: may spread.
a. Toxlc Alr
The State Affalrs Alr Toxlcs Task Group 15 worklng Hlth the State
and Terrltorlal Alr Pollutlon Program Admlnlstrators (smwm to
educate them on the 1ndustry's programs and posltlons on alr toxlcs
regulatlons.
Industry technlcal support for advocacy programs at the
state level 15 bemg enhanced and the "Alr Toxlcs Resource Handbook"
15 belng made avaliable to state agencles as an 1nfomatlon source.
Development and luvplementatlon of state air toxlcs programs 15 bemg
monltored 1n Florlda. Kentucky. Maryland. Massachusetts. North
Carollna. South Carollna. Texas and Wlsconsln.
Energy and Petrochemlcal Feedstock:
. 1. thlgatlon and Related Legal Actlvltles
FERC Notlce of Inqulry. am has submltted wrltten comments 1n
response to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commlsslon's Notlce of
Inqulry on 1nterstate pipeline marketlng afflllates. The comments
33
CMA 039775
I
express support for the Commlsslon's goal of ensurlng competltlon 1n
the natural gas marketlng/brokerlng functlon. Such competltlon Hill
beneflt all natural gas users by lowerlng gas prlces, whlle provldlng
efflclent allocatlon of avaliable gas supplles and pipeline capaclty.
In order to protect competltlon 1n the marketlng functlon, CMA stated,
the Commlsslon must prevent 1nterstate pipelines from shlftlng thelr
market power to an unregulated afflllate. CMA called on the
Commlsslon to promulgate new, but llmlted, regulatlons to facllltate
competltlon 1n natural gas marketlng.
R. Speclflc Chemlcal Research and Advocacy
1. Research and Advocacy nghllghts
Blocldes. on November 26, 1936, EPA proposed rules 1n the
Federal Reglster (51:429741 for the unposltlon of fees for Varlous
pestlclde reglstratlon actlvltles. Because the costs assoclated Hlth
thls proposal are substantlal for the entlre pestleldes 1ndustry, the
Blocldes Panel 15 preparlng comments on the proposed rule. A liaison
has been establlshed mm the Natlonal Agrlcultural Chemlcal
Assoclatlon m coordlnate comments between NACA and CMA.
Butadlene. The Panel 15 preparlng comments 1n response to the
OSHA Advanced Notlce of Proposed Rulemaklng concernlng worker exposure
to 1.37butad1ene 151 FR 350037. AS part of the comments, the Panel
has requested asslstance from three contractors 1n the followlng
areas: rlsk assessment of butadlene economlc analysls of butadlene
productlon, and emlsslon/exposure due to butadlene manufacturlng. The
comments will be presented :9 OSHA by January 19, 1937.
Butvlated Hvdroxvtoluene. The BET Panel ﬁlled a Citizen
Petition Hlth the Food and Drug Admlnlstratlon requestlng the
Commlssloner of Food and Drugs to lssue a regulatlon recognlzlng a
rlor sanctlon for the use of BET as a threat and indirect food
ddltlve. The major purpose of the Petition 15 to work Hlth the
ency 1n developmg a process by whlch the FDA evaluates the safety
0 BET 1n llght of all experlmental studles. Another purpose 1: to
r quest FDA to establlsh a common regulatory status for all
s odirelated uses of BET. The use of BET as an antloxldant 1n food
a rrently 15 subject to a complex regulatory scheme.
a lorobenzenes. A jolnt petition ﬁlled by the Chlorobenzenes
p ogram Panel and the 50cm Chlorobenzenes Producers Assoclatlon, v.5.
p ducers of ortho* and paraidlchlorobenzene requested that EPA
m hdraw the requlrement for reproductlve and fertlllty effects
te tlng mandated 1n 3 TSCA Sectlon 4157 test rule. The petition
re lects EPA and 1ndustry consensus on the significance of avaliable
da 3 on the potentlal for dlchlorobenzenes to cause reproductlve
ef eats. Sclentlflc consensus was reached prior to lssuance of the
he t rule.
In essenCE. there was agreement that a negatlve
re roductlve effects study on monochlorobenzene, comblned mm
ex stlng negatlve data on 1,2,4itr1chlorobenzene, would ellmlnate
co cern for potentlal reproductlve effects of the dlchlorobenzenes.
Th Petition was accompanled by a Panelisponsored reproductlve effects
34
cm 039775
st dy on monochlorobenzene that falled to demonstrate Significant
ad arse reproductlve effects.
Pr ducers of 1,2,47tr1chlorobenzene are preparlng m 1n1tlate
on ogenlclty studles 1n rats and rules. The testlng 15 requlred by CPA
un r a TSCA Sectlon 4157 test rule. Prellmlnary palatlblllty and
su hronlc studles Will be conducted 1n both specles 1n order to set
dos levels 1n the twoiyear bloassays.
The Panel has requested that CPA reconslder the need for 5011
ads xptlon studles on dlchlorobenzenes and 1,2,4itr1chlorobenzene.
A
rec nt report of a study contalnlng data of the type requlred 1n the
has rule was submltted to EPA mm the request. The study was
conducted for the EPA DTS Health and Envlronmental Revlew Dlvlslon
under an 1nteragency agreement mm the Department of Energy.
Cresols. The Panel has made flnal laboratory selectlons for
research that Will be conducted under a TSCA Sectlon 4137 Flnal Test
Rule. Hazleton LaboratorleS. Inc. will conduct mutagenlclty studles
and Bushy Run Research Center will conduct reproductlve and
developmental effects studles. Research will begln when the flnal
testlng guldellnes are lssued by EPA.
Ethylene made. The mm 15 preparlng to send an m workplace
survey to all m producers and ethoxylators. The results of the
survey will be used to support comments :9 OSHA on the short tam
exposure 11m: 15mm issue. The Councll feels that the lppm PEL
(longitem standard) has been effectlve 1n reduclng exposure and a
STEL (shortitem standard7 may not be necessary. The OSHA ethylene
oxlde STEL 15 m be proposed by March 1937, mm comments due Sixty
days thereafter.
2*Ethvlhexanolc Acld. cm ﬁlled a petition for judlclal revlew
of EPA'S finding that EBA "may present an unreasonable rlsk" Within
the context of TSCA'S testlng provlslons. The Panel will argue that
EPA'S testlng requlrements are not supported by "substantlal
evldence.... cm 15 also seeklng a stay of the EPA testlng requlrements
pendlng completlon of judlclal revlew proceedlngs.
2*Ethvlhexanol. The producers, 1mporters and users of 27m
conned a new panel to 1nteract mm EPA 1n the development of a test
rule. Test rule actlvlty was 1n1tlated by EPA 1n August 1935. A
proposed rule to 1n1tlate a bloassay was planned for publlcatlon by
January 1937, mm a flnal rule by June 1937. Once the monsay was
underway, EPA planned to propose a second test rule to cover any other
testlng that mlght be needed. 27m, orlglnally the subject of an
NTPisponsored chronlc bloassay, came to EPA'S attentlon when budget
cuts forced MP to drop the bloassay from 1:: program. As a result,
the Agency declded m use the TSCA Sectlon 4 provlslons m requlre
1ndustry to conduct the test. The Panel entered 1nto negotlatlons
mm EPA to attempt a test program under the newly developed consent
agreement procedure rather than formal rulemaklng. Although EPA and
mp agreed Hlth the Panel's concept of a collaboratlve research
program. negotlatlons broke down over dlsagreements on the chemlcals
35
CMA 039777
to be tested. the route of admlnlstratlbn, and the unportance of
understandlng the mechanlsm of carclnogenlclty. A proposed rule was
publlshed 1n the Federal Reglster on December 19, 1935.
Glycol Ethers. The Glycol Ether: Panel will sponsor
mutagenlclty tests on dlethylene glycol monobutyl ether (DGBE7 at
Dow's Lake Jackson Research Center. DGBE Will be evaluated 1n the
mouse bone marrow mlcronucleus test and 1n an 1n Vltro mutatlon
assay (cao/HGPRTy. These tests have been proposed by EPA 1n 3 TSCA
Sectlon 4157 test rule.
Plans to 1n1tlate a Voluntary testlng program on the trlethylene
glycol ether: have been postponed. EPA 1nformed the Panel that, due
to a more severe economlc unpact of the proposed test rule than
orlglnally antlclpated, the Agency 15 reconslderlng testlng needs for
these glycol ethers. Furthermore, EPA 15 developlng a "generlc"
glycol ether: test rule and 1: 15 posslble that the trlethylene glycol
ether: Will be 1ncluded. The generlc rule 1: Scheduled to issue thls
summer. A Panel meetlng Hlth EPA 15 antlclpated 1n February.
In a Federal Reglster notlce publlshed on December 11, 1935, OSHA
responded to EPA'S TSCA Sectlon 9137 referral of 2*methoxyethanol,
2*ethoxyethanol and thelr acetates. OSHA prellmlnarlly concluded that
occupatlonal exposures at the current pemlsslble exposure 11mm: may
present a Significant health rlsk and that adoptlon of a revlsed
occupatlonal standard 15 economlcally and technologlcally feaslble.
OSHA dld not 1nd1cate when 1: plans to 1n1tlate rulemaklng.
Hvdroqulnone. Panel representatlves met mm EPA on December
15 to dlscuss the interim rule on Extremely Hazardous Substances and
Threshold Plannlng Quantlty under Superfund amendments. CMA
recommended that hydroqulnone be deleted from the listing of acutely
toxlc chemlcals because the relevant anlmal effects data do not
satlsfy the proposed 115mm; Criteria.
Isopropanol. In response to the 19th Interagency Testlng
Commlttee Report deslgnatlng lsopropanol for health effects studles
under Sectlon 4157 of TSCA, producers met mm cm and have declded to
fom a Speclal Program Panel. The Panel's initial actlvlty Hill
center on the development of a testlng program to respond to ITC'S
concerns and to work mm the EPA on a negotlated testlng consent
agreement.
Ketones. Mesltyl oxlde producers took steps to 1nclude
supplemental materlal 1n the admlnlstratlve record before the Flfth
Clrcult Court.
In December. the motlon to supplement was denled.
Th1: means that judlclal revlew of the EPA mesltyl oxlde test rule
will proceed on the praipetltlon record 1n the Flfth Clrcult and Will
not 1nclude 1nfomatlon supportlve of the producers' TSCA Sectlon 21
Petition for wlthdrawal of the rule. The openlng brlef Will be ﬁlled
1n January.
An EPA move to stay v.5. Dlstrlct Court proceedlngs challenglng
EPA'S denlal of the Sectlon 21 petition was granted. Havlng recelved
a flnal denlal of supplementatlon 1n the Flfth Clrcult, the mesltyl
oxlde producers are seeklng to Vacate the stay.
The Natural Resources Defense Councll (mum moved to 1ntervene
1n the Flfth Clrcult and the petition was granted. The Amerlcan
Petroleum Instltute Hill Elle an amlcus curlae brlef.
Lubrlcant Addltlves. Hazard proflles developed by the Group of
Experts on the Sclentlflc Aspects of Marlne Pollutlon (GEsAmPy were
used as the basls for categorlzatlon of classes of lubrlcant
addltlves. The Bulk Chemlcal Handllng 113cm Subcommlttee of mo
placed most of the addltlves 1n 3 provlslonal category "B"; zlnc
dlthlophosphates were placed 1n category "A". Concerns Hlth the
protocol deslgn of aquatlc toxlclty studles conducted by the Panel
appear to be the basls of the provlslonal classlflcatlons. The 11m:
classlflcatlon resulted from concern mm bloccumulatlon. The Panel
15 awaiting clarlflcatlon from GESAMP before proceedlng to address
these Issues.
The Panel has provlded tank stripping data to the v.5. Coast
Guard that demonstrates efflclent stripping of Vessels carrylng
Viscous addltlves. These data will be presented to the BCH
Subcommlttee v15 (mm: as evldence supportlng exemptlon m the
Vlscoslty llmltatlons 1n 1nternatlonal regulatlons governlng marlne
transport of bulk chemlcals (MARPDL 73/797. The Panel has also made
arrangements for the v.5. Coast Guard to observe a stripping test on
an emptled Vessel 1n port.
Phosgene. The Panel recently declded not to perform a large
Eleld test of phosgene release at the Nevada Nuclear Test Slte
thls year. The Panel will contlnue investigating the feaslblllty of
performlng thls study at a future date and posslbly at a dlfferent
locatlon.
Comments are belng prepared on the August 1995 EPA Health
Assessment Document on phosgene. Comments are due to EPA by
January 30, 1937.
Phthalate Esters. The Panel has begun dlscusslons mm EPA'S
Test Rules Development Branch whlch may lead to a consent agreement to
complete envlronmental testlng under TSCA Sectlon 4. The Panel has
already completed an extenslve battery of acute tests and a chronlc
study on each of 14 phthalate esters under a Negotlated Testlng
Agreement accepted by EPA 1n January 1992. The second phase of
testlng, whlch was orlglnally agreed to by the Agency 1n 1:: 1992
Federal Reglster notlce, was rejected by EPA 1n 1994 followlng the
court ease declslon Invalldatlng NTA'S. The Panel 15 hopeful that 1::
orlglnal proposal will now be accepted and that envlronmental effects
testlng Will be completed under a consent order.
Rubber Addltlves. The Panel submltted flnal reports to EPA on
the results of two comparatlve pharmacoklnetlcs studles on
mercaptobenzothlazole and 1:5 dlsulflde derlvatlve. The studles
conflrmed that both compounds are handled slmllarly and are rapldly
37
CMA 039779
taken up and ellmlnated from the body followlng 1ntravenous and oral
dosmg.
Vlnvlldena Chlorlde. The Panel 15 preparlng comments 1n
response to EPA...5 Proposed Test Rule for 1,17d1ehloroethylene (way
151 FR 299407. The proposal requlres addltlonal toxlcology testlng
under TSCA Sectlon 4137. The Panel feels addltlonal testlng 15 not
necessary Since more than twenty VD: studles have 1nd1cated no health
concern. Comments on thls proposal are due to EPA by January 14, 1937.
2. Communlcatlons Support
The department asslsted 1n preparatlon of materlals for submlsslon
of a request for a "prlor exemptlon" for BHT and developed proposed
medla strategy for the submlsslon.
The staff also contlnued m coordlnate response to press inquiries
related to cm research.
In.
DEPARTMENTAL woman moms
Government Relatlons Department
1. Federal Grassroots Actlvltles
Durlng 1995 the Grassroots Program has undergone a transltlon 1n
1:: focus. Upon completlon of the Grassroots effort 1n support of the
Superfund Reauthorlxatlon, the program has been expandlng 1:: base
among CMA member companles and 1dentlfy1ng several new lssue areas for
1nvolvement durlng 199771999. The objectlve 15 to evolve the program
1nto a muluqssue, permanent contact mechanlsm to advance CMA'S
federal leglslatlve advocacy efforts 1n envlronment, worker health and
safety, and economlc/trade lssues.
The prlorlty lssue for the Grassroots program durlng 1997 Will be
air toxlcs emlsslons. Already much actlvlty has begun toward
developmg a grassroots network on air toxlcs. mghtymme Members of
the House and Senate have been targeted as key leglslators 1n
Congresslonal actlvlty on alr toxlcs. Earller thls year member
company Grassroots Managers asslgned Congresslonal Liaison
Representatlves (cum to lead the grassroots effort 1n thelr
Congresslonal Dlstrlcts. CLRS have been 1nvolved 1n program and lssue
orlentatlon, 1n establlshlng relatlonshlps Hlth asslgned leglslators,
and 1n the development of coalltlons Within thelr dlstrlcts. These
coalltlons. comprlsed of chemlcal company representatlves and other
1nterested constltuents. have been meetlng and Hill contlnue to meet
1n early 1997 m dlscuss the air toxlcs message and strategles for
communlcatlng mm key leglslators. Meetlngs between CLRs, coalltlons
and key leglslators, Will be scheduled for Februaryimarch 1937, durlng
the prellmlnary stages of debate on alr toxlcs emlsslons.
Other program actlvltles are underway and Hill contlnue 1n 1997
to develop an adaptablllty to changes 1n lssue emphasls. In addltlon
39
CMA 039790
to alr coxlcs two other lssues are emerglng for grassroots
conslderatlon: worker notlflcatlon and groundwater. An analysls of
key leglslators 1n these lssue areas 15 ongolng m determlne CLR
asslgnments.
Educatlon of Grassroots Managers and CLRS and message development
for worker notlflcatlon and groundwater Hill begln 1n early 1997 1n
antlelpatlon of leglslatlve actlvlty 1n the 100th Congress. Efforts
Will also contlnue m 1ncorporate member companles 1nto the program,
Either through exlstlng coalltlons or through the bulldlng of new
cmvkey leglslator relatlonshlps.
2. Federal Candldate Infomatlon Actlvltles
The Candldate Informatlon Task Group's actlvltles for 1995 were
geared toward the November electlons. The Task Group provlded
opportunltles for companles to meet nonilncumbent candldates m the
House and Senate through a serles of "Get Acqualnted... sesslons. Other
actlvltles of the Task Group 1ncluded analysls of CMA member company
employee PAC contrlbutlons m the key Members of the House and Senate;
identification of key races and candldates; and the mailing of an
"Issues ”.95" packet to all candldates m the 100th Congress whlch
1nclude economlc and lssues related 1nfomatlon.
Although 1997 15 a nonielectlon year for Federal offlces, the
Candldate Infomatlon Task Group has a tentatlve agenda whlch 1ncludes:
o Followup mm Freshmen Congressmen who partlclpated 1n CMA'S
"Get Acqualnted" sesslons durlng 1995 and other key Members as
approprlate
o Identlflcatlon of, and 1ncreased chemlcal 1ndustry Vlslblllty
mm, 1999 Senate and House candldates
o Flnal analysls of cm member company employee PAC contrlbutlons
durlng the 1995 electlons
o Contlnued analysls of cm member company employee PACS 1n 1997
Actlvltles to support thls agenda will 1nclude "Get Acqualnted"
sesslons Hlth Senate candldates. and preparatlons of an "Issues '97"
publlcatlon.
The Candldate Informatlon Task Group also plans to 1dentlfy
member company Washlngton Representatlves who are close to candldates
seeklng thelr party's Presldentlal nomlnatlon m facllltate
communlcatlons of cm posltlons on natlonal lssues of 1nterest m the
chemlcal 1ndustry.
The Candldate Informatlon Task Group will contlnue Hlth an
aggresslve and Innovatlve approach to 1mprov1ng the chemlcal 1ndustry
1nvolvement 1n and Visibility Hlth candldates. The upcomlng 1999
electlons promlse to be hotly contested and will soon domlnate the
agenda of Congress and both natlonal partles. {The Candldate
39
CMA 039791
Infomatlon Task Group will contlnua m provlde an opportunlty for the
chemlcal 1ndustry to usa the electlons to advance our capabllltles.
Technlcal Department
Superfund actlvlty has now shlfted from the leglslatlve m the
regulatory arena and many of the CERCLA amendments must be carefully
managed to avold unreasonable regulatlons. am has analyzed both
CERCLA amendments and Tltle III. and has prepared a draft cm actlon
plan. The draft 1: now 1n the hands of key cm commlttee
representatlves who, mm thelr commlttees and task groups, will
develop speclflc and reflned plans of actlon for managlng luvportant
CMA initiatives for these sweeplng pieces of leglslatlon.
Major leglslatlve efforts 1n alr, water, hazardous materlals
transportatlon, worker notlflcatlon of Significant exposure and
posslbly TSCA reauthorlzatlon are key leglslatlve lssues for thls
year. Regulatory burdens contlnue to mount across the entlre spectrum
of lssues managed by CMA.
CMA'S mum, CARR and Alr Toxlcs Control Pollcy actlvltles
contlnue to draw favorable consents from both the government and
prlvate sectors.
HUSD7 UAHRIAL REDACTED
Comunlcatlons
1. Medla Cofflsnmlcatlons
The dlvlslon made arrangements and coordlnated dlstrlbutlon of
llve satelllte coverage of recent appearance by EPA Admlnlstrator Lee
Thomas at CMA Chemlcal Forum luncheon tt> TV statlons across the
country. A llve satelllte feed was also conducted 1n January for
Senate Majorlty Leader Robert Byrd of Vest Virginia.
2. Coamnmlty and Publlc Informatlon
Approxlmately 750 requests for nomlnatlon toms have been
recelved for the 1997 Catalyst Awards Competltlon. Vlnners Will be
announced Aprll 1.
on December 16, two 1nc1dents occurred. The flrst 1nvolved a
shlpment of bacterlal cultures orlglnatlng 1n Brussels, Belglum. San
Franclsco Alzport Fire Department personnel lsolated the leaklng
4n
CMA 039792
Contalner whlle cammmc alerted the Canters for Dlsease Control 1n
Atlanta. and contacted the Belglum shlpper for 1dent1£1catlon of the
cultures. Product 1nformatlon was obtalned and the cultures were
destroyed by autoclavlng wlthout further 1nc1dent.
Later that evemng, Dow Chemlcal, Melbourne, Australla, reported
a problem mm a drum of magneslum that had been contamlnated.
cammm was able to teleconference the caller Hlth knowledgeable
people at Dow Chemlcal. Mldland, Michigan, who provlded
decontamlnatlon and dlsposal 1nfomatlon.
CMA
41
CMA 039793
upon OF
TAX PoLICy COMMITTEE
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Overvlew
In 1936, the Tax Pollcy Commlttee was Very deeply 1nvolved 1n
key leglslatlve lssues affectlng the chemlcal 1ndustry. Respondlng
m the numerous problems ralsed 1n both tax recom and Superfund
reauthorlzatlon leglslatlon, the Coomllttee responslbly handled a wide
range of tax lssues that could 1ncrease 1ndustry tax costs by more
than $5 bllllon annually.
Tax Refom Leglslatlon
For over two years the Tax Pollcy Commlttee has dealt mm the
baslc lssues of tax reform leglslatlon.
In 1935, Presldent Reagan
proposed a Siyear shlft of over $120 mumn 1n 1nd1v1dual tax
burdens m busmess taxpayers. Vlthln the busmess sector, the
Presldent's tax program would flnance lower corporate and 1nd1v1dual
tax rates by repeallng the 1nvestment tax credlt and reduclng
depreclatlon allowances. In addltan, there would be Significant
changes 1n the tax treatment of 1nternatlonal busmess actlvltles
that would substantlally 1ncrease the tax costs of v.5. cozporatlons.
In December 1935, the House of Representatlves passed 3.x. 3939
a mu whose baslc tax recom phllosophy was 1n agreement mm that
advocated by the Presldent. CMA'S major tax actlvlty 1n 1995 was
before the Senate Commlttee on Flnance.
In addltlon m the lssues
1dent1£1ed 1n the House b111, cm successfully lobbled the Flnance
Commlttee to reject several tax proposals that would have had a
dlsproportlonate 1mpact on the chemlcal 1ndustry. CMA also
successfully lobbled the Flnance Commltta m 1nclude favorable
amendments on the lssues 1dent1£1ed 1n the House mu. Chemlcal
1ndustry losses will be offset 1n part by more favorable depreclaton
treatment and lower corporate tax rates.
Durlng the Bonsaisenate Conference, cm supported the Senate
mu. However. cm successfully lobbled the Conferees to reduce t a
penalty on depreclatlon 1n the alternatlve minimum tax. The over.ll
1mpact of the tax mu Hill 1ncrease taxes paid by the chemlcl
1ndustry over the next 5 years. That 1ncrease, however, 15 not ._
great as the Increase other capltal 1ntenslve 1ndustr1es sustal ed 1n
thls leglslatlon.
Superfund Lexlslatlon
The Tax Pollcy Commlttee contlnued m provlde technlcal
asslstance 1n 1995 m the Government Relatlons Commlttee on Suerfund
fundlng lssues, 1nclud1ng broad base tax proposals. Th1: 3551 ance
provlded a major contrlbutlon to the effectlveness of CMA'S s perfund
leglslatlve advocacy.
CMA
EXHIBIT K
LIABILITY REFORM IN THE,STATES
OBJECTIVE:
To achleve positive reforms of tort law through state legls atlon, and
to protect the chemlcal 1ndustry from bemg slngled out for
dlscrlmlnatory or punitive treatment 1n such leglslatlon.
BACKGROUND AND sums:
Executlve Commlttee Request. At 1:: November meetlng, the xecutlve
Commlttee requested that a report on state tort recom be prepared to
address model state leglslatlon and coalltlons, end to pruvlde a status
report on 1995/97 state leglslatlve actlvlty.
1995 Leglslatlve Actlvlty. Approxlmately 35 states passe some
recom leglslatlon 1n 1935. Many of these laws dealt onl mm
areas, such as daycare centers or munlclpal liability. Inly 3
states. such as Colorado. Connectlcut. Vashlngton, and.lor1da,
comprehenslve reform mus. The lssues that have seen t a most
1n 1995 were:
tort
smgle
few
passed
actlvlty
~ modlflcatlon or ellmlnatlon of jolnt and several l.b111ty
~ caps on nonieconomlc damages
7 collateral source rules to deal Hlth the problem 0 double
payments
In most eases, the chemlcal 1ndustry has shared 1n he beneflts of
general tort refom. However. injuries 1nvolv1ng haardous substances
were partlally or, 1n some cases, completely exclu-d from some of the
Significant refoms, partlcularly the llmltatlon o jolnt and several
llablllty.
CMA Actlvltles. cm has undertaken the followlng.ct1v1t1es to seek
posltlve reforms 1n state tort law:
0 Developed and dlstrlbuted an lssues book that 5:: forth and
dlscusses 13 prlorlty tort law refoms for adopt on 1n the
states. These lssues were dlvlded 1nto three tle 5 based on
thelr relatlve unpact on the chemlcal 1ndustry. ome companles,
however. may have dlfferent priorities based on factors unlque to
these companles. The flrst tler 1ncluded Elva lsues relatlve to
refoms whlch CMA recommended as the baslc ele -nts 1n any
meanlngful mun
~ Nonieconomlc damages should be capped
7 Damages should be reduced by the amount of -llateral source
payments
7 Joint and several liability should be ellml ated
7 Awards of punitive damages should he caref lly scrutlnlzed and
controlled by the court
7 Fault should be requlred for llablllty
CMA names
The second tler of prlorlty lssues 1ncluded
lelt contlngency fees
Requlre quallfled expert testlmony
Ellmlnate llablllty wlthout causatlon
Provlde that initial Harnlngs are adequate
The thlrd tler of prlorlty lssues 1nclude:
7 Ellmlnate nonimutual collateral estoppe
Bar evldence of subsequent remedlal asures
7 Ellmlnate llablllty for conduct 1n comllance mm government
standards
7 Ellmlnate recovery for commerclal loss
0 vsmg the prlorlty lssues book as a g 1de, am has actlvely
partlclpated 1n the preparatlon of mode leglslatlon by the
Amerlcan Leglslatlve Exchange Councll. LEC 15 a natlonal
organlzatlon of approxlmately 2nnn con-ervatlve state
leglslators. Proposed leglslatlve langage was adopted for
1ncluslon 1n ALEC'S "Source Book of A -r1can State Leglslatlon,
1997799." CMA'S tort refom'lssues re-ource book was utlllzed 1n
the development of thls language and A objectlves, as set forth
1n the lssues book, were 1ncozporate. The ALEC source book was
sent to all 7,451 state leglslators n December.
0 Durlng the same time perlod, CMA w-rked mm the Amerlcan Tort
Refom Assoclatlon. ATRA 15 a broad nased Coalltlon created for
the speclflc purpose of supportlng ort refom. CMA served on
ATRA'S Legal Conalttee whlch prepard pollcy papers on Varlous
tort reform lssues. The flnal poll papers, 3 major supportlng
document for ALEC'S model bllls. ad a copy of ALEC'S model
leglslatlon were publlshed 1n Septmber 1n the "2mm Leglslatlve
Resource Book." Th1: manual has b-n dellvered to all um.
Congressmen, state Governors and eglslators, state tort recom
coalltlons and all 2mm members.
0 Successful tort reform has freuently 1nvolved the use of broad
based coalltlons. 1nclud1ng majo 1ndustr1es, small busmesses,
doctors and local governments.
o The Texas Chemlcal Councll ha been Very actlve 1n tort reform
Coalltlon efforts and could be sad as a gulde by other chemlcal
counclls.
o CMA has selected prlorlty 5t.tes and contacts are bemg developed
mm those states.
In addltlon, these contacts a - belng
expanded by worklng 1n cooper.tlon mm the Councll of Chemlcal
Assoclatlon Executlves.
CMA names
0 CMA contlnues m monltor a d support tort recom 1n all states.
The text of the ALEC model b 115 and the status of 1995 tort
recom initiatives mm a 5 he by state outlook for 1997 15
avaliable from cm.
RECOMMENDATIONS:
o CMA and 1:: member comps 1e: should support exlstlng ALEC model
leglslatlon rather than dr.ft1ng a separate chemlcal 1ndustry
model mu. These proposal have been developed by a broad based
coalltlon. whlch 1ncluded MA. and agreement has been reached as
m the provlslons whlch l.rgely colnclde Hlth the chemlcal
1ndustry's prlorltles. Dr.ft1ng addltlonal proposals at thls
tune could create a wedg dlvldlng proponents of tort refom.
Moreover. a model mm c sated by the chemlcal Industry 15
unllkely to recelve the nroad support avaliable through the ALEC
mus.
o CMA should encourage ember companles, through state chemlcal
counclls and other stat- busmess organlzatlons, to actlvely
partlclpate 1n efforts to support general tort reform on a state
by state basls. cm shmld also urge state chemlcal 1ndustry
counclls to 1nclude t.‘ t recom as a top prlorlty lssue for 1997
and m partlclpate 1n or 1n1tlate broad based state coalltlons,
such as the Texas modl, m achleve tort reform.
ACTION REQUIRED:
Approval of recommenatlons.
CMA
CMA 039797
EXHIBIT L
Communlcatlons Comm ttee 1997 Report
to am Board of m -ctors
Mlchael E. Thompso ~
Slnce thls report 5 by deflnltlon an annual report,
there's a natural emptatlon, to whlch I'm golng to yleld, to
look back at the Vents of the past year and ask the famlllar
questlon: "Are we better off than we were 12 months ago?"
When I put that - estlon m the members of the communlcatlons
commlttEE, the rsponse was a strong convlctlon that the chemlcal
1ndustry today 1 In better standlng mm the publlc and the
press than 1: w.s last year. Th1: Improvement Is real, and even
VerlflablE. as '11 polnt out 1n 3 mlnute. In short, 1: feels
good and 1: 15 ood. or at least gettlng better.
In our report 0 you last year, the commlttee felt that the
1ndustry was rady to make a move 1n 1mprov1ng 1:5 reputatlon.
What the Indus ry needed was contlnued commltment from senlor
management, a year wlthout a major domestlc 1nc1dent, a major
communlcatlon effort from the 1ndustry's plant people and
communlcatlo K professlonals, and, frankly, a m: of luck.
Well, we got a lot of what we needed 1n 1935.
Startlng at he top, senlor managers 1n the 1ndustry gave thelr
personal an corporate endorsement to our communlcatlons efforts,
partlcularl on Superfund, CAER, and alr toxlcs. Word has spread
throughout our organlzatlons that 1: 15 good busmess to commlt
tune and m. power to communlcatlng on these 1mportant lssues.
We also ha a year wlthout a major chemlcal 1nc1dent to reklndle
the fears .5 Bhopal. The closest we came was the traln
derallmen near Mlamlsburg, Dhlo. Fortunately, there was no loss
of life 0 serlous 1njury and the operatlng and communlcatlons
people 1n olved 1n the 1nc1dent dld thelr Jobs well. As a
result. a accldent was portrayed 1n the medla as belng as much
a r511 m shap as a chemcahrelated problem.
Perhaps he worst reportlng on the Mlamlsburg Incldent may have
occurre on the ABC network coverage of the golf tournament that
was being played 1n nearby Dayton at the time of the wreck. I
can re mber crlnglng In front of ay tv set watchlng and
llsten ng to those two noted envlronmental reporters Dave Barr
and J1 McKay dlscusslng how to play golf 1n sulfur fumes.
...D1r-ctoricozporate Medla Relatlons, Amoco Corporatlon
CMA n 9799
c
We alo seemed to have escaped much resldual blame for the recent
Rhln- Ruler splll In Swltzerland. Frankly, I'm at a loss as to
why hat Incldent dldn't recelve more crltlcal coverage 1n the
U.s., but I'm sure not complalnlng about 1:. Each day wlthout a
pagione 1nc1dent puts Bhopal one more day behlnd us.
193.51“ saw a remarkable communlcatlons effort 1n the
1n stry's support of the CARR program at the local level. If we
ha the tune. I could have filled both days of thls meetlng Hlth
su cess storles on the communlcatlon of the CAER program 1n our
p ant communltles.
I fact. 1995 could be called the Year of the Chemlcal Plant Open
H-use. The chemlcal 1ndustry held more open houses than Century
A last year and the overwhelmlngly posltlve results reflect the
onslderable effort that went Into these actlvltles. I can't
ecall a smgle negatlve eplsode 1n the thousands of CAEkirelated
communlcatlons actlvltles that took place 1n 1935.
These local actlvltles have further enhanced the role of the
chemlcal plant manager as a communlcator 1n his local communlty.
These 1nd1v1duals today are more willing and capable of
representlng you companles and our 1ndustry than ever before.
It's also clear to the commlttee that many companles are now
placlng 1ncrease value on communlcatlons skllls when senlor
management selects the people to serve as your plant managers.
on the medla rel.tlons front 1n 1996, the commlttee felt that we
generally recelV-d falr coverage. Our relatlonshlps Hlth
envlronmental reorters for many major medla were further
strengthened dur mg the year. Famlllarlty breeds respect 1n thls
7 regard, and we had another year to Increase our 1ndustry's
credlblllty Hlth these reporters. In addltlon, all of our sklns
got a llttle m: trucker 1n 1995 as the 1ndustry learned anew
that worklng m: the medla 15 a tough, noinonsense, and sometlme
frustratlng part of all of our Jobs. A5 a result, our collectlve
tolerance level 1th the medla 15 even hlgher than 1: was. We
have learned tha no one story or smgle eplsode 15 crltlcal and
that 1t's the 10 g tam results that count 1n worklng Hlth the
press.
As a result of t ass and other efforts 1n 1996, the publlc's
opinion of our 1 dustry 1mproved, at least 15 you belleve the
publlc opinion 5 rveys. I won't go 1nto all the statlstlcs, but
I trunk a few trnds are worth comment.
Accordlng to one prestlglous natlonal survey, the publlc's Vlew
of our Industry mproved measurably. Our approval ratlng 1n thls
survey Increased by about 40 percent durlng 1995. However,
falrness requlre me to polnt out that we started the year dead
last among 15 1nustr1es, mm a ratlng so low that any
luvprovement woul seem large by comparlson. Th1: unprovement,
though sllght, m-ved us from 15th place to about 12th or 13th on
cm 039799
the 1ndustry 115-. We're above the alcohol and nuclear power
1ndustr1es and Vry close to the electrlc utility 1ndustry. Now
our standlng doe-n't begln to compare mm the ratlngs of the
topirated computr 1ndustry or the food and retalllng 1ndustr1es.
But we moved up . notch or two and our ranklng 15 the hlghest
1t's been Since 932. That has to quallfy as good news.
Th1: survey showd two other ltems of speclal 1nterest. First,
1n 3 speclal que-tlonnalre, the plastlcs Industry recelved an
approval ratlng ma: would place 1: at about 5th place on the
lSilndustry 115: Since many of the companles here today have
some 1nterest 1n plastlcs, thls approval ratlng should be
encouraglng.
And, secondly, t e 011 1ndustry, whlch for years had been 1n the
publlc's doghousn Improved notlceably. In 1992 the all guys
were 1n last plae. By the fourth quarter of 1995 011 had moved
all the way up (n about the mddle of the 15 1ndustr1es. So
major unprovemen- 15 posslble 15 we persevere.
Other results fr-m other surveys show mlxed results elther the
publlc's opinion about us stayed the same or 1mproved only
sllghtly. We see to be reboundlng slowly from last year's
rockibottom ratl g5.
Yet we should no confuse these sllght unprovements Hlth any
lessemng of the publlc's concern about the envlronment and our
1ndustry.
Survey after sur ey contlnue to show that the Amerlcan people
place envlronmenal concerns Very high among thelr prlorltles,
even to the poln of preferrlng the envlronment over jobs or
hlgher prices wh-n faced Hlth a cholce 1n the surveys.
The publlc feels that the envlronment 15 1mprov1ng, but feels
that the 1mprove ent has been progresslng too slowly and that
nobody busmss or government 15 actlng qulckly enough.
The publlc contlues to rank the dlsposal of hazardous wastes as
1:: number one evlronmental concern and alts: the chemlcal
1ndustry conslstntly as the country's prlmary source of air and
water pollutlon.
Faced Hlth these condltlons. the communlcatlons commlttee's 1997
objectlves reflet our enthuslasm to support CHA'S advocacy
efforts and the upportunlty m parlay these efforts, where
posslblE, 1nto 1 proved communlcatlons Hlth the publlc at large.
Headlng our projct 115: for 1997 Is the followup on our CAER
communlcatlon aclevements of 1935. If there 15 3 cm member
plant that hasn' yet conducted a CAER communlcatlons actlvlty,
we want to 61nd t and get 1: on track Hlth the rest of the
1ndustry.
cm 039790
CARR has been TH leadershlp effort for the chemlcal 1ndustry
durlng thls decawe and we must not let 1: Hither W elther 1n an
operatlng or a cnmmunlcatlons sense. The commlttee's greatest
fear 1: that our plant people will become complacent about CAER
now that they ha a gone through all the effort of establlshlng 1:
1n thelr commum les. Pardon the pun, but CAER Hill requlre a
lot of tender 10 mg care 1n the future 15 1: 15 m contlnue as
the 1ndustry's c agshlp health and safety program.
Another of the m-ny Values of CAER 15 that 1: gives us the
opportunlty to dal from strength 1n conductlng our future
communlcatlons a tlvltles at the plant level. mm thls 1n mnd,
the commlttee an cm staff are bulldlng on CAER'S success 1n
tackllng the 1nd stry's two upcomlng communlcatlons hurdles
alr toxlcs and t e 1mplementatlon of the Tltle III provlslons of
Superfund.
In the air toxlc area, a survey of the commlttee found that most
of the companles 1ntend to treat thelr alr toxlcs communlcatlons
as an extenslon .5 the CARR program.
However. we shou d reallze that the air toxlcs lssue presents
some communlcatl-ns barrlers that are qulte dlfferent from our
CARR effort.
For one thlng, c emlcal plants 1n 3 communlty usually produce
wldely dlfferlng product slates. So whlle one plant can boast to
the local medla .bout 1:: relatlvely clean products and lack of
toxlc alr emlssl-ns, a nelghborlng plant manager may have a devll
of a tune explal mg why he can't comment about chronlc alr
emlsslons of ms hlghlyitoxlc products. Remember too that most
of these same pl-nts worked closely together 1n 1ntroduc1ng the
' CARR program t- the communlty. The unified local approach that
worked so well um the CAER program also could suffer when
dlfferent plants are at dlfferent stages of unplementlng thelr
alr toxlcs progr.ms.
Another concern 5 that many plant managers understandably are
reluctant to be .5 aggresslve 1n promotlng the air toxlcs lssue
as they Here n: mm. The reason 15 clear: Admlttlng m
chronlc alr emlslons of toxlc chemlcals 15 not a pleasant duty.
And 1n some case managers are not 1n 3 posltlon to comment about
the longitem ef acts of exposure to these emlsslons.
In overcomlng th-se concerns, the communlcatlons commlttee, cm
staff, and your local managers will carry out a comprehenslve and
effectlve commu catlons program. We've already held our flrst
alr toxlcs comm leatlons workshop earller thls month 1n
Houston. 1: was all attended. Includlng many plant managers,
and many 1mport. t questlons were ralsed. We do plan to be a m:
cautlous 1n our .pproach to thls communlcatlons program, and I
hope you agree nth our thlnklng.
cm 039791
w also plan to . lid on the CAER communlcatlons success In
helplng local pl.nt people cope mm the Tltle III provlslon of
Superfund. Thes- provlslons Hill requlre your plants to make
more 1nfomatlo avaliable about your products and processes than
ever before. 1: 111 all be avaliable at once and 1: Will be
avaliable to an -ne who wants 1:. Already some envlronmental
groups have 5m ‘ what they can do to embarrass us mm our own
1nformatlon tak. out of context. The commlttee has formed a
separate task L; .up that will help us formulate our
communlcatlons ~11cy 1n thls area.
Our flnal major -bject1ve 1n 1997 15 to contlnue to 55515: the
state chemlcal "unclls 1n unprovlng thelr communlcatlons
capabllltles. W-‘Ve already have made 1mportant progress 1n
1111x1915, Louls ana, and New Jersey and we'll be worklng mm
more states 1n Ie future.
Th1: state*leve actlvlty becomes more unportant when you reallze
that Proposltlo *657type leglslatlon will expand from Callfornla
to many other 5 ates. The CICs so far have been receptlve to our
help and we pla m contlnue thls partnershlp.
So our 1997 age da Hill conslst of four major objectlves:
followlng up on CARR communlcatlons, extendlng our communlcatlons
actlvltles m c-Ver the air toxlcs and Tltle III iSSuES, and
worklng Hlth th- CICs. These objectlves are 1n addltlon, of
course, to our .ngomg work mm other commlttees Hlthln CMA m
provlde communl-atlons counsel and hands*on help as requlred.
The commlttee f-els that these goals are achlevable Hlth current
manpower and mm current resources.
I would llke to close mm a comment that doesn't fall readlly
1nto our normal communlcatlons toplcs.
The commlttee f-els that we should be wary of the recent attacks
on the scicalle "corpocracy" of major v.5. companles. Whlle
1t's too early .9 call thls a major trend, there are a lot of
people cut thern Includlng some 1n the current admlnlstratlon,
who may well be taklng shots at v.5. busmessmen.
Executlves soul be blamed for everythlng from worklng too hard
on thelr golf g. e m operatlng bloated and 1nefflc1ent
organlzatlons t sacrlflclng the bluedzollar worker's future for
the sake of the r frlends 1n the executlve sluts.
Along these lln-s, GM may be the flrst company to enter thls
quagmlre. That ompany's 50750 perfomance, the Perot buyout,
the wave of mm est plant closmgs, and a weak product slate have
comblned m foe s publlc and medla attentlon on the personal
Capabilities of those managlng the glant auto company.
cm 039792
mule GM may be the flrst, we shouldn't be fooled 1nto thlnklng
the publlc's atentlon will stop there. Th1: 15 a trend we'll
all have m Hath Very closely.
In concluslon. 995 saw the chemlcal 1ndustry's reputatlon mm
the publlc 1mprmve for the flrst time 1n several years. Th1:
uptlck dld not ome about by accldent. 1: occurred because we
operated safely moved aggresslvely to meet the publlc's
legltlmate conc-rns about our operatlons, and took the tune to
tell people wha- we were dolng.
Through CARR an other programs we showed a lot of confldence 1n
the Amerlcan pulls last year. Maybe they're beglnnlng to return
that confldence I hope so.
We look forward to earnlng your contlnued support throughout
1997. I Will be pleased to try to answer any questlons you mlght
have about the ommunlcatlons commlttee and our 1997 plans.
cm
cm 039793
exhlblt m
annum, report
or
THE PATENT AND 'ADEMARK COMMITTEE
JANUARY 27, 199
EXECUTIVE summy
In 1936, cm, t rough the Patent and Trademark Commlttee ("PATC... or
"the Commlttee" , has been an 1nstrumental Volce 1n provldlng 1ndustry
input to the v. .. Admlnlstratlon and Congress 1n the development of patent
pollcles at horn and abroad. The PATC has also advocated CMA posltlons
dlrectly mm f-relgn authorltles, as approprlate, and mm other domestlc
and forelgn 1nd stry groups.
Durlng the past year, am, through the PATC, has obtalned 1ncreased
Visibility and aspect 1n the 1ndustrlal property rlghts area.
Congresslonal a d Agency staffs SDllClt CMA'S comments on pendlng domestlc
leglslatlon. an tlclpated regulatory changes, and 1nternatlonal
negotlatlons.
In the leglslat Ve arenaptne Commlttee contlnued 1:5 efforts on
patent tam res oratlon leglslatlon for chemlcals. Moreover, the Commlttee
advocated enact ent of process patent leglslatlon and revlewed approprlate
cm posltlons 0 federal laboratory utlllzatlon leglslatlon, government
patent pollcy, -nd amendments to Sectlon 337 of the Tarlff Act of 1930, as
amended.
In addltlon to .dvocacy efforts on leglslatlon, the Commlttee
prepared Hrltte comments for submlsslon by cm on a number of regulatory
and 1nternatlon-l lssues.
The Comnlttee aso partlclpated 1n 3 number of the Admlnlstratlon's
1nvest1gatlons .nd 1nfomatlonigather1ng actlvltles on the 1nternatlonal
protectlon of 1 dustrlal property rlghts and advlsed the CMA Internatlonal
Trade Commlttee on the approprlate role of thls subject 1n the new Round of
Multllateral Tr.de Negotlatlons.
In all these foums, the Commlttee has
stressed the 1mortance of strengthened patent protectlon to v.5.
technologlcal avancement, contlnued economc recovery, and productlvlty.
The PATC also played an 1mportant communlcatlons role 1n 1995 1n
keeplng CMA'S m-mber companles apprlsed of developments on 1ndustrlal
property rlghts lssues. The Commlttee communlcated mm the Board of
Dlrectors and m-mber companles on a number of patent lssues through
mechanlsms such as Actlon Advlsorles. other cm reports, and newsletters.
By playlng thls colmnunlcatlons role. the Commlttee not only dlssemlnated
1nformatlon to ember companles, but also became 1nfomed on the posltlons
of the members -n patent lssues. The Commlttee, 1n turn, was then better
able to formula a proposed cm posltlons and advocate exlstlng ones.
Flnally, 1: 15 ignlflcant to note that the Conmlttee has carrled out
these 1995 actl itles mm no expendltures for outslde asslstance, elther
technlcal or leal. ertten comnents were prepared and advocacy actlvltles
carrled out by ommlttee members, other deslgnated CMA member company
representatlves, and CMA staff. We also do not antlelpate any major
outslde asslsta Ce expenses durlng 1937.
cm
cm 039794
EXHIBIT N
WASTE MINIMIZA mu PROGRAM
PURPOSE OF EXE TIVE COMMITTEE AND 13mm: 017 ummmns REVIEW
The Envlronmental Management Conmlttee's (Ema) Ad Hoc Task Group on
Waste Mlnlmlzatlon presented a status report descrlblng the waste
mlnlmlzatlon lssue's 1mportance and a posslble CMA program at the
November Board of Dlrector's meetlng. The purpose of thls revlew 15
m obtaln appr-Val of a recommended CMA program.
BACKGROUND
The 1994 Amen ants to the Resource Conservatlon and Recovery Act
(RCRA7 requlre companles to establlsh Voluntary waste mlnlmlzatlon
programs and c-rtlfy actlons. Several states have 1n place or are
developmg leg slatlon requlrlng waste mlnlmlzatlon. Company waste
mlnlmlzatlon enforts are also bemg scrutlnlzed when pemlts for
waste facllltl-s are requested. Alternatlves for stronger federal
actlon are dlsussed 1n recent reports to Congress by the Offlce of
Technology Ass-ssment and EPA. Applying greater pressure to force
waste mlnlmlza lon appears to be a hlgh prlorlty for publlc 1nterest
groups. Th1: g-al 15 reflected 1n Varlous thrusts toward achlevlng
zero dlscharge and opposltlon to 51mm; new treatment and dlsposal
facilities.
The progress t at 1ndustry has made 1n unplementlng Voluntary waste
mlnlmlzatlon pograms Will be evaluated by Congress 1n hearlngs
beglnnlng 1n 1-37. If 1ndustry cannot demonstrate sufflclent
progress: publ c 1nterest groups may be able to convlnce Congress to
adopt extreme .mendments as part of RCRA'S reauthorlzatlon whlch 1:
Scheduled 1n 1-39. The amendments could 1nclude such undeslrable
1ntruslons 1nt-1ndustry operatlons as 11mm: on waste generatlon,
process restrl-tlons, and outslde audlts.
Companles are .lready confronted Hlth 1ncreaslng costs of waste
dlsposal as E? expands the scope of wastes regulated as hazardous
under RCRA. 1 laments further land dlsposal pretreatment
requlrements. .nd further tlghtens controls over waste management
practlces. Man companles have slgnlflcantly reduced thelr waste.
At thls time, owever. there 15 no rellable natlonal data to
demonstrate 1nustryw1de progress, and F.?A's programs are under
attack.
III.
TIMING
Waste mlnlmlzallon 15 llkely to be an lssue 1n RCRA hearlngs and
reauthorlzatlo .
In addltlon. E.A 15 commltted m unprove waste
mlnlmlzatlon pograms and data bases 1n 1937, whlch 1: must do to
reduce Congres-lonal overslght pressures. CMA needs to start 1::
program early n 1997 to provlde asslstance to EPA and to develop an
1ndustry pan: on that frames the debate 1n terms that are
reasonable. Alhough the lssue 15 not at a Crisis stage, by
establlshlng a program and data base early, cm Will be 1n the best
posltlon to ac lave 1:5 objectlves over the next few yesrs.
cm 039795
2
pnoposw WASTE MINIMIZATIDN woman
oh 1 actlve 7 nform and asslse member companles 1n reduclng wastes
at the sourCE, 1ncreaslng recycle, and reduclng dlsposal rlsks.
Expected benef ts of thls effort are:
0
better protect on of human health and the envlronment;
o
avoiding oneros leglslatlon that mandates waste reductlon;
o
limiting dlspoal costs and future cleanup llablllty; and
o
1mprov1ng publ c understandlng of 1ndustry generatlon and
dlsposal pract ces.
Proposed CMA P-sltlon on Waste Mlnlmlzatlon
cm supports a forts of 1:: member companles to minimize waste. cm
member companls have programs 1n place that have resulted 1n
reduced all“, u tar, and solld. waste releases to the envlronment. To
achleve furthe progress, 1nd1v1dual companles are encouraged to
expand thelr p ograms to respond to addltlonal waste mlnlmlzatlon
opportunltles hat exlst 1n thelr operatlons. am will 1nfom and
35515: 1:: me er companles 1n reduclng wastes by unplementlng a
waste mlnlmlza lon program.
Actlvltles
0
An 1ndustry pr-gram to promote and 55515: member companles 1n
developmg and carrylng out waste mlnlmlzatlon programs (1.e.,
workshops, res-urce manuals, newsletter, and swards program.
0
Leglslatlve an regulatory advocacy support to address waste
mlnlmlzatlon lsues before Congress and EPA.
0
Measurement of waste mlnlmlzatlon progress 1n order to document
progress 11.? unlfom deflnltlons of key terms, deflnltlon of
measurement neds. evaluatlon of exlstlng data systems and
modlflcatlon t ereoﬁ.
o
Communlcatlons of member company and 1ndustry waste
mlnlmlzatlon a mums: (1.e., 1dent1£1catlon of key perceptlons,
development of a strategy to effectlvely communlcate
1ndustryw1de . d anecdotal 1nformatlon to targeted audlences on
a contlnulng b.5157.
Further cm pr-grammatlc actlon, 1.e., establlshlng percentage
reductlon goal slmllar m CMA'S snsrgy conservatlon program or
enactment of . elr toxlcs type control program Hlth detalled
luvplementatlo steps, may ha consldered and recommended 1n the
future to the xecutlve Comlttee and Board of Dlrectors on an as
needed basls.
cm 039795
3
RESAHJ'KCE NEE!
0
cm Staff Imp. t
To support th- four actlvltles noted above, a portlon of a
professlonal -rson and some support staff time Will be
necessary. A -quest for the necessary personnel 1: belng
addressed 55.1“: of CMA'S FT 97/99 budget process.
0
Dutslde Purch.sed Servlces Impact
The EMC has r-comended $ADK fundlng for outslde purchased
servlces as p.rt of thelr FT 97/99 budget proposals.
0
Member Compan Resources Impact
Approxlmately 10 m 15 member company Volunteers will be needed
to carry thls effort forward through deslgn and unplementatlon.
mcommmnm
The EMC recoasends approval of CMA unplementlng a new waste
mlnlmlzatlon rogram.
v11.
ACTION Rmvmm
Approval of t a BM: recommendatlon.
cm
cm 039797
EXHIBIT 0
CONCEPTS TOR magma cnoumuwnmz LEGKSTATIDN
1. Background
C1.t1.2an5 an publlc offlclals um groundwater contamlnatlon as a
natlonal prob em. Consequently, groundwater will become a news medla
issue almed a. commerclal and 1ndustrlal sources.
Several feder.l groundwater mus, 1ntroduced 1n the 94th Congress,
will serve to focus future groundwater debates. Senator Purenberger
(Rim) and Se ator Burdlck mium will each 1ntroduce a comprehenslve
federal grounwater mu early 1n tha 100th Congress. Slmllar mus Will
be 1ntroduced 1n the House. Groundwater leglslatlon could unposa product
usa restrlctlns (e.g., pestlcldes, detergents, solvents), requlre
addltlonal prtectlon or remedlatlon actlvltles, and 1ntroduce onerous
product 115m 1ty concepts.
Many states h.ve or are enactlng groundwater leglslatlon and are
unplementlng roundwater management programs. State efforts may establlsh
tha need for star usa restrlctlons, land usa plannlng declslons, new
Vlctlm compen-atlon concerns, and 51te*speclflc regulatory frameworks
whlch could in tlma/cost consumlng.
CMA'S prevlou ly approved groundwater posltlons ware used to
establlsh proosed CMA federal leglslatlve concepts and a leglslatlve
strategy for artlclpatlon 1n tha federal groundwater debate. vsmg these
concepts, am will strlve m 1nfluence tha Congresslonal groundwater
debate so tha any leglslatlon enacted resembles CMA'S posltlon as closely
as posslble. 0 support thls effort, cm 15 prepared ro partlclpate
actlvaly 1n te federal groundwater debate durlng the 100th Congress.
Early partlclatlon 1n tha debate will hal'p CMA focus the emerglng
dlscusslons ad will 1dentlfy CMA as an 1nvolved knowledgeable party.
II. Slmary of CMA'S Concepts for Federal Groundwater Leglslatlon
Prlmary respo Slblllty for management of groundwater should contlnue
m reslde Hit the states. Each state should develop and Implement a
comprehenslve groundwater management program. A state groundwater
management pr-gram should address the followlng components: 117 character*
lzatlon and p annlngi 127 usa of approprlate groundwater objectlves and
standards; 13 protsctlon; 147 remedlatlon; 157 monltorlng; and 157
1nterstate gr-undweter 1mpacts.
Fadsral 55515 ancs should ha avaliable to help the states perform
these tasks. ms asslstance cen 1nclude: (17 federal fundlng to 35515:
the states de slop end unplement thelr groundwater management programs;
127 technlcal Informatlon and guldance; and 137 sclentlflcallyibased
crlterla and tandards for states' use 1n maklng groundwater protectlon
and remedlatl-n declslons. Howsver. ths federal 1nvolvement should not
1nclude the alllty to make declslons for the stats about the most
approprlate w.y to 1mplement the components of the state program.
cm 039799
2
III. TIjm Schdule
Groundwater H11 in addraased as a kay lssue 1n tha 100th Congress.
To ensure tha CMA has an actlve Volce 1n the debatE, CMA...5 federal
advocacy concpts need to be approved early 1n 1937.
IV. Recoenend.t lon
Tha EMC has r-Vlewed and approved these concepts for federal
groundwater l-glslatlon. The EMC recommends approval of the concepts
paper.
Actlon Reques ed
Approve CMA'S concepts for federal groundwater leglslatlon.
cm
cm 039799
Concepts for ederal Groundwater Leglslatlon
State Groundw.ter Management Prograa
Each stats sh-uld davalop a groundwater management program. Developman
and 1mplement.tlon of the program would be the responslblllty of the
state; but feeral asslstance should be avaliable to help the state
perform these tasks. Fallure by the state to develop a program would
only lead to . loss of any further federal asslstance for program
1mplementat1- .
A state prog am should have to address the followlng components:
A program to characterlze state groundwater resources to the
extent necessary for state plannlng.
Use of approrlate groundwater objectlves and standards.
A prograa to protect state groundwater resources from
sources of c-ntamlnatlon.
A process to address groundwater remedlatlon needs.
A groundwate monltorlng program.
A process to address 1nterstate groundwater Impacts.
The followln are detalled descrlptlons of each of these components.
Groundwater Iharacterlzatlon
The state out establlsh a program to characterlze 1:5
groundwater esouraes to the extent necessary for the state
plannlng.
The program hould rely on exlstlng data where that 15
avaliable an feaslble.
The state sh-uld consult Hlth the Unlted States Geologlcal
Survey mscsy and the Unlted States Envlronmental
Protectlon Aency (mm for guldance on developmg the
characterlza-lon program.
The state so ld declde not to characterlze partlcular
portlons of me groundwater resource, 15 1: determlnes chat
such actlon s not necessary at that tune.
Based upon 1.: characterlzatlon program, the state could
dlvlde 1:5 goundwater 1nto Varlous categorles, whlch may
requlre dlffrent management approaches.
Groundwater ijectlves and Standards
The stats mu-t establlsh approprlate groundwater objectlves.
Dbjectlves aply m 1nd1v1dual aqulfers or portlons of
aqulfers.
The objecth-s oust 1dentlfy the current and reasonably
antlclpated uture uses of the groundwater.
Based upon t e objectlves, the state must 1dentlfy standards
that Hill prmtect avallablllty of the groundwater for
those 1dent11ed uses. Standards must be set usmg
sclentlflcal yivalld bases.
For regulatlg drlnklng water supply, the state must use
maxlmum Conbmlnant levels (MCL'57 adopted by EPA under the
Safe Drlnkln Water Act, whenever a substance has an MCL.
The state shuld use crlterla developed by EPA to sac
numarleal us. standards. mus would requlre a new work
effort, crltrla development, at EPA.)
Protectlon p ograms
The state mut davalop
resources frum sources
groundwater rotectlon
the goal of inlmlzlng
a program to protect 1:5 groundwater
of Contamlna lon.
Tn developlnw the
program. the state should conslder
releases to roundwater.
In developlnw 1:5 protectlon program, the state must
1dentlfy and evaluate exlstlng and potentlal sources of
contamlnatlo .
The program ould 1nclude, as approprlate, source controls,
land use con rols. groundwater wlthdrawal llmltatlons, and
any other su table protectlon measures.
The program us: be coordlnated mm exlstlng source control
programs, 1n ludlng those under RCRA. sDwA, FTFRA, and (IVA,
and must be onslstent mm exlstlng federal provlslons
concernlng aequate hazardous waste treatment or dlsposal
capaclty.
The program ust address all Significant sources of
contamlnatlo .
Source contr-ls could apply unlformly statewlde or could
apply to spa 161:: types of sources or 1nd1v1dual sources.
Source contr-l requlrements should make approprlate
dlstlnctlons among new and old sources, dlfferent types of
sources, an speclflc unlque sources.
Protectlon nasures must take 1nto account appllcable
groundwater -bject1ves and standards. Some minimum
protectlon nasures should be developed for all areas of the
state.
cm 039901
The stats m t detemlne how 1:: program will be
ljnplananta (e.g., Voluntary controls, regulatlons,
tralnlng, a catlon, and any other approprlate measures.)
Tha program ust 1nclude adequate authorlty for the state to
enforce pro -ctlon requlrements.
Groundwater I'emedlatlon
The state In St develop a process to address groundwater
remedlatlon needs.
When needed, remedlal measures should be formulated on a
case speclf c basls and take 1nto account any approprlate
groundwater objectlves/standards.
The state r- edlatlon process must be coordlnated Hlth
appllcable tats and federal laws, 1nclud1ng state tort
and watar r ghts law.
The state In St address all sources for whlch there may he
Significant remedlal concerns.
The remedla-lon process must 1nclude adequate authorlty for
the state t enforce remedlal requlrements.
Monltorlng 'rograms
The state In St develop a groundwater monltorlng program.
The program must be formulated to serve three purposes;
3. Assess t e extent to whlch groundwater meers appllcable
groundwater objectlves and standards.
b. Provlde nfomatlon on groundwater trends and,
contamlnant- .
c. Provlde nfomatlon on sources of contamlnatlon as
necessary.
The program must 1nclude measures to ensure that data
gathered 3r sclentlflcally Valld.
The state sould consult Hlth the Unlted States Geologlcal
Survey and PA for guldance on developlng the monltorlng
program.
The state c-uld establlsh a data management system that
1ncorporate all relevant monltorlng data. The data
management ystem should 1nclude 1nformatlon so the user
can 1dentlf the quallty control and quallty assurance of
the data be ore those data are used.
cm 039902
I
Interstate mpacts
The seam p ogram should 1nclude a mechanlsm to assess
1nterstate mpacts and to develop 1nterstate agreements,
where approrlate.
cm 039903
Concepts to Federal Groundwater leglslatlon
Federal Rol 1n Groundwater Management
Federal funlng would be avaliable to 35515: the states 1n
developmg helr programs.
If a state ubmlts a groundwater management program to EPA
that 1ncluds all of the requlred components, EPA must accept the
program and provlde fundlng to 55515: 1n unplementatlon.
EPA may not judge the substantlve adequacy of the state program
as long as he state program 1ncludes all of the requlred
components -nd the state certlfles that thelr program compiles
mm the st.tutory requlrements.
EPA and U55 must 55515: the states by developmg and provldlng
groundwater quallty Criteria, technlcal Infomatlon, and
guldance on groundwater lssues.
cm
cm 039904
EXHIBIT p
TRADE LAW 'MEDIES communes IMPORTS THREATENING
NATIONAL SE mum
BACKGROUND n u sums:
Current tr.e lav authorlzes the Presldent to restrlct 1mports of
products w 1ch threaten natlonal securlty. A 115: of such products 15
malntalned hy the General Servlces Admlnlstratlon. Addltlons m the
115: are h.ndled by the Department of Commerce through a petition
process. A rullng on the petition must occur Within one year of 1:5
filing.
If favorab e, the rullng must then be acted upon by the
Presldent, .u: no deadllnes currently exlst for Presldentlal actlons.
The produc 5 Currently 1ncluded on the 115: whlch could be
consldered m be chemlcals are elther ores or chemlcal element
products. evertheless. there 15 good reason to belleve chat, as
petrocheml-al 1ndustr1es contlnue to develop 1n researchirlch areas of
the world .ausmg v.5. plant closures, addltlonal chemlcal products
such as pe-rochemlcals would be added to the 115:.
A major o 1bus trade mu 1: antlclpated from the 100th
Congress. Ihe cm Internatlonal Trade Commlttee has already proposed a
number of osltlons to the Board whlch address dlfferent facets of
exlstlng tade law whlch am will be able to address Either dlrectly or
through co.lltlons durlng the upcomlng Congresslonal dellberatlons.
cm PDSITIIN:
cm supporls the strengthenlng of Sectlon 232 of the Trade
Expanslon at of 1952 and recommends the followlng changes to achleve
thls 31m.
0 Shorten he time perlod allotted for the Secretary of Commerce
to act on ectlon 232 petitions.
o Shorten he time for exlstlng mandatory deadllnes, or mpose
deadllnes here none exlst, by whlch both the Secretary of
Commerce ad the Presldent must act on Sectlon 232
1nvest1gat ans.
0 Requlre ubllc dlsclosure of flnal actlons on petltlons.
ACTION REQUESTED
Approval 0 attached posltlon.
cm
cm means
TRADE LAW EMEDIES communes IMPORTS THREATENING NATIONAL
mummy
Current La
Sectlon 23 of the Trade Expanslon Act of 1952 authorlzes the
Presldent o restrlct unports of products whlch threaten natlonal
securlty. he lav requlres the Secretary of Commerce to begln an
1nvest1gat on of the potentlal natlonal securlty 1mpact of
1mports of a produet upon the request of another government
agency or apartment, an 1nterested party, or his own Volltlon.
If the Sec etary detemlnes that there 15 some threat to natlonal
securlty, a must advlse the Presldent Hlthln one year of the
1n1tlatlon of the 1nvest1gatlon. However, the Presldent 15 not
obllged to answer thls petition Within a speclflc perlod.
Sampllng o Proposals Made for Leglslatlve Changes
Several pr-posals have been made to establlsh deadllnes for
Presldent1.l actlon, such as a requlrement that the Presldent act
Within one year after recelvlng the Secretary's advlce. Another
suggestlo would establlsh a Bniday deadllne. Some would 1m7
plement t - Secretary's recommendatlons 15 the Presldent has not
acted Hit n en days after recelvlng the report. Another sugi
gestlon w- ld transfer the authorlty from the Presldent.to the
USTR and -uld requlre the USTR to act Hlthln the en days after
recelvlng he Secretary's recommendatlons.
' cm PDSI 10M:
Certaln p oducts uncludlng some chemcalsy are essentlal to the
Unlted St.tes 1n tunes of natlonal emergency. The Federal
Governmen- should ensure that import competltlon does not hlnder
the capac ty of domestlc 1ndustr1es to guarantee adequate supi
plies of Ihese essentlal products.
Leglslatl-n that would
provlde fr deadllnes will force the Admlnlstratlon to focus on
questlons of natlonal securlty and unports 1n 3 tlmely manner.
However,lransferr1ng current presldentlal authorlty m the USTR
seems 1nefect1ve Since the vsm 15 part of the Admlnlstratlon
and as a ractlcal matter would not act wlthout the Presldent's
authorlty
Certaln c emlcal feedstock: as well as derlvatlve products could
fall 1nto the category of bemg essentlal m natlonal securlty.
The lssue as to what extent the natlonal securlty and forelgn
pollcy co cerns outwelgh the economc beneflts of short term
lover prles, and the questlon of what natlonal securlty costs
should be borne by the taxpayers to protect;agalnst supply
dlsruptlo n ed to be addressed.
cm mean ‘
2
cm suppo ts the strengthenlng of Ssctlon 232 of the Trad;
Expanslon Act of 1952 and recommends the followlng changes to
acmew t 1: 31m.
ana a sector petitions to 1n1tlate a Sectlon 232
1nvest1ga ion (or those selsqmuated by the Governsenm Bust be revlewed by the Secretary of coaaerce and
Within an days a declslon Bust be Bade by the Secretary
whether t- proceed mm the 1nvest1gatlon or temlnate
Provle for aandatory deadllnes 1n whlch both the
Secretary of CoBaerce and the Presldent Bust act on
1nvest1ga lons 1n1tlated by the Departaent of Commerce
whlch sak recommendatlons to the Presldent. The
recommend-tlons of the Secretary of Commerce to the
Presldent Bust be made no later than a months after an
1nvest1ga ion 15 1n1tlated and the Presldent must act
upon the ecommendatlon Within an days and make publlc
the reaso s for the actlon taken.
cm
cm mean
EXHIBIT 0
Amerlcan atlonal Standard for Precautlonary
labellng .5 Hazardous Industrlal Chemlcals
(ANSI 2129.1719977
EACKGRD -: Since 1946, CMA mam has lssued general labellng gulde*
llnes fo the chemlcal 1ndustry. In 1975, CMA became the
Secretar at for the development of ANSI 2129.1: the Amerlcan
Natlonal Standard for Precautlonary Labellng of Hazardous
Industr1.l Chemlcals. The guldellnes then became a Voluntary
consensu standard under the ausplces of the Amerlcan Natlonal
Standard Instltute (M517.
ANSI 212-.1 was publlshed 1n 197a and 1932, and has been
extenslV-ly revlsed by the cm Health and Safety Commlttee's
Labellng Task Group for a 1997 printing. After presentatlon to
the Exec tlve Commlttee and Board. the draft standard will enter
the ANSI consensus process by whlch CMA member companles,
1nterest-d 1ndustry groups, labor muons, government agencles,
consumer coalltlons and professlonal socletles revlew and Vote on
the stanard. Flnal submlsslon to the ANSI Board of Revlew 15
projects for m1d71987.
smum NCE of ANSI 2129.» The 1997 revlslon of ANSI 2129.1 15
part1cul.rly relevant to the chemlcal 1ndustry for the followlng
reasons:
0
The OSHA Hazard Cosstunlcatlon Standard requlres labellng
of all n. zardous 1ndustrlal chemlcals and chemlcal mlxtures.
o
In 1936, OSHA Eleld 1nspectors lssued altatlons to CMA member
companle for a Varlety of labellng Violations, 1nclud1ng the
lack of arget organ/system hazard Harnlngs on labels.
0
The perf-mance*or1ented nature of the OSHA Hazard Communist
tlon Sta dard and the complementary generlc labellng gulde*
llnes 1n ANSI 2129.1 provlde both guldance and flexlblllty m
cm membr companles.
o
A 11:1g1ms trend toward 1ndustry llablllty for alleged
occupatl-nal lllnesses has put the 1ndustry at rlsk for
{allure o Eulflll the "duty to warn."
pnrmny ISSUES IN ANSI 2129.171997;
o
In llgh of the regulatory and liability lssues llsted
above. A 51 2129.171997 focuses for the flrst time on
labelln of delayed (chronlc) hazards and target organ/
system azards.
o
Guldanc- for 1mmedlate (acute7 hazards has been revlsed.
2
0
As ouch 53 posslble" all guldellnes 1n the standard have been
compare- and adjusted for compllance Hlth hey regulatory
statute', e.g., the DSKA Hazard Comnunlcatlon Standard, TSCA,
pm“, [CT labellng requlrements, etc.
ADVOCAC PLANS;
ACTION
0
Announcment of the avallablllty of the standard 1n trade
journal. newsletters, and other approprlate forums.
0
Impleme tatlon workshops for cm member companles, 1ndustry
groups, and government offlclals 1n 199771999.
requlret
Endorse the submlsslon of the proposed revlsed
labelln standard (ANSI 21294719977 for consensus
revlew. followed by Amerlcan Natlonal Standards
Instltu e approval and adoptlon.
cm
cm mane
camrcm pnouvcmzs ...mm sammm
comm. How: To CLEAN SITEs, ma.
co. A AL
CHEM]: L PRODUCT
SALES
152.5
227.5
325.0
125.0
107.5
150.5
215.0
92.0
55.0
77.0
110.0
42.0
40.0
50.0
90.0
30.0
55mm s 575014
27.5
39.5
55.0
20.0
525024 a 550024
17.5
24.5
35.0
14.0
510024 To 515014
13.0
3.25
UNDER 55014
~ PRoosED
cm DBBlD
CLEAN SITES REVENUE soURcEs
5 MIL IONS
94/95
95/95
95/97
97/99
99/99
99/9.
cm nonmnsumous
DTHE' coumnsmmus
Rm u-xmsmam
TDTAI
exhllt s
cam CAL mmmmmms ASSOCIATION
REED vau on v.5. SAVINGS BONDS
WHE' A5, The v.5. Savlngs Bonds program
Prov des the 1nd1v1dual mm an 1nvestment that comblnes
HIGH MARKEFBASED INTEREST. GUARANTEED MINIMUM RETURN.
SPECAL TAX ADVANTAGEs, AND A couvmmm PAYROLL SAVINGS
PLA :
Pro 1des busmess Hlth easler access to capltal by re*
due ng THE LEVEL 017 sovmwmm BDRRDWING m FINANCIAL
MAR T5, AND
Pro 1des the natlon Hlth a
FIN ems THE PUBLIC DEBT.
£15 ally
pruent means
of
BE t resolved that the Chemlcal Manufacturers Assoclatlon
s 'DNGL‘I URGES ITS MEMBERSHIP TD ACTIVELY svwom THE 1997 v.5. SAVINGS
Bo d5 campalgn by:
TH'REFDRE:
Dranlzlng
1n whlch
c- panyiwlde 1997 u.S. Savlngs Bonds campalgns
emloyees are 1nd1v1dually asked to enroll 1n
T-E PROGRAM. on TO INCREASE THEIR ALLDTMENTS IF CURRENTLY
P'TICIPATING.
A 039912
